As the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) report fine details were  being presented at the Bomas of Kenya earlier in the week, I could not help but notice the large crowds of people who were in attendance. The rising cases of Covid-19 were not going to deter people — and definitely not how fast the event was organised.  The meeting was organised in less than a week. There were people who tried to get to the venue though it was an invite only attended by who-is-who in Kenya’s religious, political, civil society and social circles. It was surprising to see the parents of baby Pendo in attendance. Their story not long ago had rocked the nation in the middle of a tumultuous election. Pendo, an innocent baby girl lost her life to a stray bullet, while in the safety of her home. Now her parents are ambassadors of peace, years later asking politicians not to use people during elections for violence. There were a few people who made suggestions to BBI proposals. But the speech that most will remember is that of Deputy President William Ruto. I have never felt so uncomfortable for somebody else in my life, but that day, I was squirming in my seat as he spoke and the crowd would lightly jeer him. It was even worse to see President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga avoid eye contact.  At that moment, the DP was on his own, it looked like he was an activist at an unwelcome government function. Who would have thought that some of the DP’s insights would be in agreement with civil society sentiment? Some would say, the Deputy President and civil society are in the same WhatsApp group. The DP was not the only one, though, to have some reservations. Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi even suggested a smaller working technical group to be able to look at some of the issues that were raised. But, the problem with nitpicking, is the fact that no one will be satisfied. Not everyone is going to be pleased at the end of the day, someone will have to be disappointed. And that is what happens when many interests inhibit with well based decisions. Space to encourage diversity and national cohesion was lacking as well as encouraging different opinion. The most basic approaches of conflict resolution are to give opposing sides time to share their views before coming to a middle ground. Two years after the BBI taskforce was launched, what have we learned about unity? Nerima Wako-Ojiwa, executive director, Siasa Place @NerimaW