The October 28 election that resulted in a virtual wipe out of Tanzania’s opposition felt like a continuation of ruling party CCM’s refrain, “ushindi wa kishindo” (a landslide victory), leaving a bitter taste in the mouth of those who wish for multipartyism. This feeling was there when Jakaya Kikwete swept to power in 2005 with 80 percent of the vote and even higher percentage for his party in parliament. But Kikwete comported himself as a far from malevolent individual. In his own words on the inauguration of the National Assembly, he said: “I may be smiling but I am very firm on issues”. Come his re-election in 2010 and subsequently 2015 when John Magufuli was the presidential contender, the fortunes of CCM began to revert to the pre-1995 order. Now in 2020, with Magufuli at the helm, it was a moment for the opposition to smell the coffee, especially going by his oft repeated words that prompted veteran commentator, Jenerali Ulimwengu, to write, “Magufuli is an extremely transparent ruler in his special way.” Magufuli would utter that “he is not a politician” and that “Magufuli’s Tanzania will be...” Both of these pointed to a man on a mission to stamp himself on a nation to a point of cutting to size any politician. He would go on and on about how “development knows no political party” then poach opposition leaders, dealing a blow to the electorate faith in the opposition. As a dress rehearsal for 2020, 2019 saw the local elections in terms of village level essentially. For a safe passage, all the opposition needed was to go back to 2014 when the then President Kikwete reached a compromise with the opposition on four key issues to be cleared prior to 2015, including establishing an independent electoral body as well as the ability of the opposition to question the outcome of the vote in court. This year, a last ditch attempt was made by a fearless bishop in concert with other concerned citizens to have electoral changes enacted through the nascent Sabasaba movement. To a large extent, the opposition leaders’ indifference resulted in it coming a cropper. Of equal importance to the fortunes of the opposition parties has been the failure to forge any meaningful unity despite a very hostile terrain. The big question then arises what next for the opposition in Tanzania? Reaching out to all political players is the overriding priority. Let the opposition leaders seek strengths rather than weaknesses in each other. If it means collapsing several of their parties and rebuilding a new outfit, all the better. Secondly, let them make a critical assessment as to why their performance since 1995 has not seen them come close to even winning half of the seats. If the opposition parties are not in a healthy state to compete, the eventual sufferer is the ordinary voter. This brings in the urgent need for the provision of independent candidates. One can only imagine the angst at seeing the name of someone you competed against in CCM going through unopposed as a result of the opposition being unable to field a candidate in a constituency or ward. This is a blemish on the country’s political affairs. Andrew Bomani is a political commentator and acting publicity secretary of the United Democratic Party, Tanzania