All Uganda’s seven general elections since 1962 have been very tough, but the eighth one coming in two or three months is going to be unprecedented. For a while the strength of the two main camps were nearly balanced, it is hard to make an educated, informative comparison of the two bulls facing off this time — a 76-year-old military general and a 38-year-old reggae musician. Uganda’s first election was potentially the toughest, pitting Benedicto Kiwanuka, a Catholic lawyer from the central region Baganda community against Milton Obote a full-time politician from the north but who was in alliance with the Anglican King of Buganda against the king’s ‘rebellious’ subject. It was tough and though won by Obote and the King, their alliance broke down almost immediately, ending in the battle of Mengo in 1966 that left hundreds of royal subjects’ corpses in the royal palace. The country’s second general election which took a while coming — 18 years in 1980, had Obote returning after nine years of exile in Tanzania that had been occasioned by a military coup in 1971, facing off with Paulo Ssemogerere, a mentee of Kiwanuka — the man Obote contested against in 1962. Although Obote was a shadow of his former self with the exile having taken a heavy toll, he was backed by the Tanzania state and military while Ssemogerere was adorably popular. It was a very tough and balanced electoral battle that inevitably ended in military battle; a five-year civil war. The third election took place in 1996. Ssemogerere was in it again, this time battling the incumbent president Yoweri Museveni who had waged the post-election war in 1981 and captured power in 1986 and was now seeking electoral mandate. Ssemogerere was supported by all forces who disagreed with the single party notion and put up a stiff fight and went down after an impressive battle that was won by Museveni. The fourth election brought a surprise contender who has to date proved to be Museveni’s strongest opponent ever — Dr Kizza Besigye, former insider who broke out of Museveni’s camp accusing his former boss of derailing their movement. Besigye’s campaign was electrified by the ‘city-born’, highly charismatic ‘man of the street’, the recently departed ex-mayor Hajji Nasser Sebaggala. The fifth, sixth and seventh elections were all fought between Museveni and Besigye. Although there always were other candidates in the elections, these were what Kampalans refer to as ‘flower girls’ who, though dressed like brides, just accompany her through the function. Between them, Besigye and Museveni always hog about 99 percent of all the votes cast in a cast eight or so ‘candidates’. And now see what Besigye has done! ‘Betraying’ his ‘permanent’ opponent by abandoning the race! Maybe Besigye just maliciously decided to punish Museveni by condemning him to winning a hollow victory with 90-something percent and undermine his legitimacy. Unless, the new kid on the block, Robert Kyagulanyi aka Bobi Wine, keeps the tradition of giving the main contestant a real run for his money. The two, Museveni and Bobi Wine, are as different as night and day. Museveni became president when Bobi Wine was in his diapers, aged three. They have been bickering for the past three years since Bobi joined politics via a parliamentary by-election. Everything about the two is different. If Museveni attacks with a legal provision probably containing a Latin phrase, Bobi Wine responds with an emoji. But if Uganda looks bad with Mr Thirties battling Mr Seventies, don’t blame Museveni or Bobi Wine; go instead and ask Messrs Forties, Fifties and Sixties. Where were they, for the past 35 years, not to raise a contestant from amongst themselves, basing on the proximity they have enjoyed to Mr Seventies? What have they built other than private mansions for sleeping, costly rental apartments with no tenants and shopping malls to promote consumption and not production? Not even a culture of civilized political contest! Before blasting ‘Baby Bobi’ for audaciously challenging ‘Grandpa Mzee’, they should blast themselves for failing to raise Mzee’s successor from amongst themselves. Buwembo is a Kampala-based journalist. E-mail:buwembo@gmail.com