Bujumbura, Burundi's newly elected president Evariste Ndayishimiye will be sworn in today (Thursday), following the sudden death of his predecessor Pierre Nkurunziza who left him an isolated nation in political and economic turmoil. Ndayishimiye was elected in May, in a vote disputed by the opposition, and was meant to take office in August But his inauguration was speeded up after his predecessor Nkurunziza's sudden death. His swearing-in ceremony will take place at the Ingoma Stadium in the administrative capital Gitega, with the public asked to arrive early to allow time for coronavirus measures such as hand-washing and temperature checks. DIPLOMATS INVITED Diplomats and representatives of international organisations have been invited, however Democratic Republic of Congo President Felix Tshisekedi is expected to be the only head of state attending due to the ongoing pandemic. Nkurunziza, who ruled the east Africa nation for 15 often tumultuous years, was said by the government to have died of a heart attack last week. However, the 55-year-old fell ill less than two weeks after his wife had been flown to a Nairobi hospital for treatment for the coronavirus, according to a medical document seen by AFP, and speculation is rife he may have caught the virus. RESPIRATORY DISTRESS A medical source told AFP he had suffered "respiratory distress" before dying. Compared to its neighbours which imposed lockdowns and curfews – with the exception of equally sceptical Tanzania – Burundi has taken few measures to combat the virus. Last month, the country expelled a team of World Health Organisation experts who were supporting the country's response to the epidemic. Nkurunziza, a devout evangelical who believed he was chosen by God to lead Burundi, leaves a "dark and sad legacy", Carina Tertsakian of the Burundi Human Rights Initiative told AFP. His 2015 run for a third term in office sparked protests and a failed coup, with violence leaving at least 1,200 dead while some 400,000 fled the country. CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY United Nations human rights investigators have said the period since 2015 has been marked by likely crimes against humanity committed by state forces, citing extrajudicial executions, arbitrary arrests, disappearances, torture and sexual violence. Ndayishimiye, 52, a former army general and Hutu rebel like his predecessor, had been handpicked by the powerful ruling CNDD-FDD party to run in a May 20 presidential election. He won the vote with 68.7 per cent and an opposition bid to have the results overturned due to alleged fraud was overturned just days before Nkurunziza's death. Ndayishimiye is reputed to be more tolerant and open than his predecessor and is not a regime hardliner. MORE INDEPENDENCE Observers say the death of Nkurunziza – who was expected to continue to play a significant role – might give him more independence. However, he will still have to please the powerful group of generals at the core of the ruling party who anointed him to succeed Nkurunziza. After the news of Nkurunziza's death, Ndayishimiye vowed to "continue his high-quality work that he has done for our country". The change in president also opens up the possibility of warmer ties with foreign donors, who cut Burundi off after the 2015 crisis. A source in the French presidency said the country would work with its European partners and "extend a hand to the new Burundian president". "For the first time we will have a leader who is not just forging ahead regardless of the consequences, wrapped up in divine faith," the source said. The government has yet to announce a date for Nkurunziza's funeral.   106 patients recovered while 10 other died. Military leaders are accused of unbridled looting of state resources.