For much of his career, Robino Ntila was known for his etched prints in monochrome, which depicted every day scenes in rural settings, culture, nature, seafronts and Zanzibar’s Stone Town. He learned the etching technique while studying in Austria, a country he would visit and exhibit numerous times. But he also produced batiks, tie and dye, copper engravings and oils. Tanzanian painter Robino Ntila, who died on May 21, was one of East Africa’s earliest contemporary artists. “I am sorry to see the passage of another pioneer artist,” said Alan Donovan, co-founder of the African Heritage Gallery in Kenya, which often featured his work. Born in 1953 in southern Tanzania, Ntila studied art at Uganda’s Makerere University. He was one of the veteran artists of Nyumba ya Sanaa (house of art), a leading artists’ collective in Dar es Salaam. It was started in 1972 by American Missionary Sister Jean Pruit. Ntila joined in 1975 eventually becoming the main co-ordinator for over 30 years. Nyumba ya Sanaa hosted many new artists from Tanzania such as George Lilanga and the legendary Tinga Tinga. Sadly, it was torn down in 2010 to make way for a commercial building, however, another centre was later opened at a different location in the city. For much of his career Ntila was known for his etched prints in monochrome, which depicted every day scenes in rural settings, culture, nature, seafronts and Zanzibar’s Stone Town. He learned the etching technique while studying in Austria, a country he would visit and exhibit numerous times. But he also produced batiks, tie and dye, copper engravings and oils. Ntila is fondly remembered as the "teacher of printmaking" having tutored many young creatives. A selection of his paintings are on display at the Nairobi Gallery as part of the Tanzania Pioneer Artists exhibition, which he co-curated with Alan Donovan. Ntila attended the opening in October 2019 and was the only Tanzanian artist present. The gallery is closed but those interested in viewing can contact the curator.   Healthcare providers have reported shortages of basic medications in pharmacies and hospitals. The second-largest Ebola outbreak on record is over after nearly two years and more than 2,200