Four State House officials have tested positive for coronavirus, marking the first publicly-acknowledged Covid-19 infections at the top national government office in Kenya. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said the identities of the four will remain concealed as they seek treatment at the Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital in Kiambu County. They tested positive for Covid-19 following a screening conducted last week. “During last week's mass Covid-19 testing held on Thursday, 11th June 2020, four persons were found to have contracted the disease...Families and close contacts of the affected officers are also being attended to accordingly,” Ms Dena said in a statement issued today. UHURU SAFE She also noted that President Uhuru Kenyatta and the first family are "safe and free from Covid-19". State House has rolled out undisclosed protocols for all visitors and staff residing outside the compound in an effort to curb more infections, she said. The revelation comes as Kenya's Covid-19 cases rose by 133, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 3,727. The number of fatalities also rose to 104 after one more person died in the last 24 hours. Some 1,286 people in the country have now recovered from coronavirus infection. RE-OPENING THE ECONOMY The infections at State House come on the day several public institutions, including courts, resumed normal operations that were disrupted in March due to state directives meant to curb the spread of the virus. The government also closed bars and schools to slow down infections after Kenya reported its first case on March 12. Hotels, restaurants and other eateries have since reopened but with strict rules, including ensuring social distancing. The ministries of Education and Interior are currently finalising recommendations that will guide gradual reopening of learning institutions and places of worship as the state targets reopening the economy.   Ministry says number of infections is likely to keep rising. UK researchers say dexamethasone is a promising treatment for severe Covid-19.