•  Aviation regulator says measures to be implemented are in line with the operating procedures. •  While the country is easing the restrictions, Covid-19 cases are increasing and the national tally is 657, including 118 recoveries. •  No death has been registered, according to figures from the Ministry of Health. Uganda Civil Aviation Authority (UCAA) has announced new measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 as it plans the reopening of the country's Entebbe International Airport. Vianney Luggya, spokesperson for UCAA, told Xinhua by telephone on Monday that the measures to be implemented are in line with the operating procedures required by the International Civil Aviation Authority to stem the spread of the disease across borders. Luggya said all passengers reaching the clearing terminals will have to be tested for Covid-19. He said tents have been erected at the airport where temperature screening, profiling and observation of arriving passengers will take place. "Taking of Covid-19 samples from arriving passengers and isolation of those that may have been found to have COVID-19 will all be done at the airport," he said. He said outbound passengers would be required to undergo a rapid test for the virus or present a valid health certificate from the Ministry of Health. "Temperature screening, wearing of face masks, regular sanitizing and social distancing will also be emphasized throughout the various formalities," he said. Uganda closed the Entebbe International Airport on March 23 to stop the importation of Covid-19 cases after the index case was registered on March 21. Only humanitarian, evacuation and cargo flights are allowed. The government has not announced when the airport would be opened but it has started easing the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. Public and private transport, shops, restaurants and hotels are all reopened. Public gatherings, worship centers and schools remain closed, and a night curfew is still in place. While the country is easing the restrictions, Covid-19 cases are increasing and the national tally is 657, including 118 recoveries. No death has been registered, according to figures from the Ministry of Health.   Government says Pierre Nkurunziza,55, died of heart attack. 2,247 samples tested in the last 24 hours.