The world marked this year’s World Refugee Day on June 20 in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Since the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a global health emergency, it has had unprecedented socio-economic impact on the global community. The theme for this year’s World Refugee Day — Everyone can make a difference; everyone counts — is in line with the agenda 2030 of leaving no one behind. According to the UN Refugee Agency, the global refugee population stands at 25.9 million. Almost half of them are under the age of 18. The rallying call could, therefore, not have come at a better time. Programmes in training and skills development were availed to refugees without a clear integration into the local labour market realities or the same opportunity availed to host communities. The burden of hosting refugees has been disproportionate for developing countries and even heavier for the most immediate hosting communities. It is with this recognition that the United Nations General Assembly, in 2016, adopted the landmark New York Declaration on refugees and migrants. This was followed by the Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework that recognises the need for increased international responsibility sharing, easing pressure on host countries and communities while working towards self-reliance of refugees while perusing peace in countries of origin that would enable a return of those displaced. The International Labour Organisation together with its partners financially supported by the Netherlands, have joined forces to support Kenya’s efforts towards the realisation of the Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework, with the spirit and letter of the Global Compact on Refugees. The new approach to displacement calls for increased, long-term funding to address long-standing development challenges, including the integration of labour for refugees and their hosts into the local economies. Refugees leave home with different experiences, skills and knowledge but, unfortunately, many of them are often not able to utilise these in their host countries as asylum-seekers. Recognition of prior learning, such as informal skills acquired before and even during exile, remains low — thus hindering refugees’ meaningful engagement in the local labour market. This, in essence, denies them the opportunity to contribute and make a difference in their hosting countries. From a labour-market perspective, they do not even count. Ensuring that mechanisms for skills recognition and upskilling where need be are available for refugees, accompanied by access to employment services, both public and private that link them to existing opportunities in the labour market, would greatly enhance their participation and contribution to the local labour market. Kenya’s long-standing history of hospitality, especially towards those made most vulnerable by displacement, will ensure that shared prosperity can be created for both refugees and the communities that host them. In line with the theme for this year’s World Refugee Day, Everyone can make a difference, everyone counts. Caroline Njuki is the chief technical advisor on inclusive jobs and education for host communities, refugees and other forcibly displaced persons at ILO Kenya. ***This article was first published in The EastAfrican newspaper, June 20-26 edition.   Sectors that depend on social interactions such as aviation, hospitality will have little Containment measures to control spread of virus have led to feelings of suffocation.