When Miles Davis released Birth of the Cool in 1957 it changed the face of contemporary music. Recorded some eight years earlier, the 11 tracks are now recognised as among the greatest jazz ever made and the album’s influence has spread into many aspects of our lives, even being used as the background music to the video game, Grand Theft Auto IV. Davis has influenced artists, too, and not only with the pleading tone of his muted trumpet. Maliza Kiasuwa who produces collages and wall hangings in an old barn on the shores of Lake Naivasha quotes Davis’s comment that jazz is the perfect combination of discipline and improvisation. “I like that,” she said, seeing the rigour of creating harmony through the unification of disparate elements at the heart of her own practice, too. For her there is the physical contrast of disparate elements as well. Across the road from the comparative peace of her studio is a bustling settlement packed with kiosks and thronged by children, donkeys and chickens. “The coexistence of these two worlds is an endless source of inspiration; my art reflects both the raw natural beauty of my environment and common, everyday acts of recycling, stitching and mending,” she explained in a commentary that accompanied her on-line exhibition hosted by the Circle Art Gallery, of Nairobi. The work can be found on Artsy artsy.net and the gallery’s home website circleartgallery.com. There are some 20 pieces in this show, by an artist previously based in the DR Congo, in Kinshasa, and who has lived and worked in Kenya for the past seven years. Kiasuwa first came to notice in this region with a masterful wall hanging shown at the Circle gallery in February, 2018. Called Nyirangongo l, the Divinity Volcano, it was part of a mixed show called New Threads, exploring “process and material”; in other words, how artists make art and what they use to do so. Kiasuwa’s wall sculpture, of crimson wool threads cascading like lava from what looked like the curving splendour of a tribal headdress, represented the eruption of the volcano Nyirangongo which towered over Goma, in eastern DR Congo in 2002, engulfing the town. Mirroring the arc of the headdress, which proclaimed the imperial presence of the volcano, was a tumble of white woollen yarn on the floor; lava sliding hissing and steaming into Lake Kivu. It was a tour de force that won both critical acclaim and more importantly that of the gallery-going public, and it broadcast the arrival of a new and vital talent in town. A pre-virus visit to the gallery ensured this majestic piece could be enjoyed for its scale and texture as well as appearance alone but with on-line shows likely to dominate for some time, Circle director Danda Jaroljmek is hoping to overcome any shortfall in the viewing experience by adding videos of the works plus filmed interviews with the artists to her gallery’s websites Since that startling debut Kiasuwa has focused on materials from the immediate surroundings of her new home by Lake Naivasha, including shards of plastic, pieces of polythene mesh and cotton, combined with magazine cut-outs, x-rays and textiles to construct collages that offer new interpretations of everyday objects. The artist also has a fondness for washi, Japanese handmade paper (wa means ‘Japanese’; shi is ‘paper’), much loved by artists for being both durable and flexible. Her collages (all of which quickly found buyers) are part of a series called Today is Yesterday — the title of her exhibition — begun in 2019 that continues her transformation of the commonplace into the remarkable; an alchemy that can be extrapolated into a metaphor for the layering of new understandings onto previous knowledge and experiences. Kiasuwa’s mixed media sculptures and wall hangings pay homage, like her Divinity Volcano, to the awesome power and beauty of the natural world. And in so doing they invite us to consider, as Jaroljmek explains, “what remains of our activities in the world, the things we collect and those that are left in our wake, and how these can be the source of something new and beautiful.” For me they are also totems, essential reference points that by combining natural and industrial materials through accessible techniques such as weaving, sewing and braiding, help us to navigate the need to protect our surroundings. If Today is Yesterday then surely Tomorrow is Today — and from a French speaking Congolese artist living by the somewhat degraded shores of Lake Naivasha, that has to be both a warning and a crie de coeur.   Ministry says number of infections is likely to keep rising. UK researchers say dexamethasone is a promising treatment for severe Covid-19.