Role of men in parenting and how adolescent boys deal with pressure and approaching adulthood are projected with a heady fusion of drawing, painting, collage and sculpture. The business of art is to trap reality, as Francis Bacon said — and one artist in this region busy revealing truths is Richard Kimathi. A painter for some 25 years, he is hugely admired by other artists and made his mark as the man whose work they check out to see what might be coming over the horizon. Of late he has focused on series featuring idiosyncratic figures with large lolling heads, wistful expressions and rolling eyes. They have an immediate presence but can be disquieting, making viewers feel uneasy as though challenged; probably because they project important issues and attack stereotypes and prejudice with wit and flair. Intolerance of homosexuals as symbolic of a general bias against anyone different from ourselves or our beliefs, the objectivisation of women, the rising rate of rural suicides and the struggle faced by young men to resolve conflicts between themselves and the wider community have all featured in his work. As a technician, Kimathi is superb, the oil and acrylic paints applied flawlessly, his delicate high-key palette ravishing our senses; and as an innovator he creates with confidence works that are a heady fusion of drawing, sculpture, collage, paint — and time. At his home studio in KBC area Machakos County, Kimathi cuts out figure drawings made on scraps of canvas, often months and sometimes years apart, and then arranges them on a fresh canvas combining poses that appeal to him as though introducing these people to each other and forming new communities. When satisfied with their relationship he glues them down with acrylic primer then paints the canvas as a whole, using oils or acrylics as his colours demand (itself an unusual determiner of choice of media). The edges of the cut-out figures lift them from the picture plane, giving a pleasurably sculptural feel; one echoed by Kimathi’s iron-sheet cut outs which he hammers into bas-relief before painting. A selection of some 30 of the artist’s paintings dating from 2013 plus around 10 of his bas-relief sculptures can currently be seen at the One-Off gallery in Rosslyn, to the west of Nairobi; some 20 of them in a half-price sale of the earlier work. Of particular interest because they show the direction in which he is currently headed are six from his latest series, Papas and Nowhere Stories. Made this year, Papas deal nominally with the role of fathers in parenting while Nowhere Stories show adolescent boys dealing with peer group pressures and the approach of adulthood, themes that can be extrapolated into a more general consideration of how societies deal with their inner tensions. Papas I, II and III put the father centre stage in caring for his children, a role not always immediately apparent in traditional homes. In his continuing bid to bust stereotypes, Kimathi in Papas I shows the father as provider, carrying a sack of sweet potatoes; Papas II shows him holding a baby beneath an umbrella offering shelter, with his two young sons nearby; and Papas III shows him as pillar of the family with several generations, frozen in time as children, clustered around him. “Fathers must get involved in caring for their children,” Kimathi said. “They have a big role to play and it is not true that fathers are so busy that they don’t have the time.” The Nowhere Stories show groups of youths helping a fallen friend… gathered protectively around him in NS I; providing support as he staggers, about to fall, in NS II; and dragging him away to safety in NS III. All the figures in these paintings are male. In fact, Kimathi has not painted females since around 2014. All good artists are said to put something of themselves in their work, no matter how obliquely, and it is tempting to think that in this Kimathi might run true to form, given that he and his wife have three sons, aged 10, seven and 18 months. No girls. Autobiography aside, Kimathi does reflect in conversation on what he calls, “the fragility and uncertainty of the male psyche.” Amidst such self-doubt among his characters, some of those in these two series appear uncertain even of why they are there, in the composition. If they don’t know perhaps it is because they are primarily part of the technical matter of getting the group to cohere as a new community — there solely for pictorial effect — and maybe they coincidentally express the very doubt that assails many of us from time to time: What on earth are we doing here, anyway?   The funding will go towards helping Kenyans at risk of hunger. More than 136,000 new cases were reported worldwide on Sunday.