As Kenya eases out of Covid-19 restrictions, the Four Points by Sheraton Nairobi Airport is ready for the return of international guests. However, the hotel, which is a near Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA), never closed during the period of travel restrictions, “We have had airline cargo and cabin crew, and guests on special repatriation flights coming back home,” said the general manager, Vivek Mathur. At the hotel entrance, the security check includes a body temperature scan by personnel. All staff wear personal protective equipment (PPE) and guests are also encouraged to wear masks. Before heading to the check-in desk, my luggage and I were also sprayed with a disinfectant solution. Covid-19 safety signage and hand sanitisers have been installed in several public areas. But they are unobtrusive and designed in mellow colours that do not clash with the decor. On the lobby floor are prominent blue decal stickers demarcating appropriate distancing for waiting guests. At the reception desk, employees stand behind clear sneeze-guard panels. Only two people are allowed into the elevator at a time and I am told that the luggage trolleys are disinfected by the concierge staff after each use. “All items used by the guests such as pens and PDQ machines are sanitised after every use,” says Mathur. Also, the airport service vehicles are sanitised after each trip and only operate at 50 per cent capacity in line with health guidelines. Should a guest arrive with abnormal temperature, they will be taken to an observation room for checkup. If a guest were to fall sick during their stay, “We contact our doctors on-call and also have an arrangement with the airport health centre.” Work-on-the go Clean, bright guest rooms with king-size beds, white linen and large windows create a well-lit atmosphere against the deep brown floors and bed headboard. The amenities counter doubles up as a work desk, power outlets easy to access and with free Wi-Fi, the bedroom is a work-friendly space. Guests have views of the plains beyond the airport road. ‘Check out our new contactless compendium’ is what the bedside tent card says. It has QR code that you scan with your phone to view in-room dining options. To minimise person-to-person contact, the waiter delivered my beverage at the door. Disinfectant hand wipes and sanitary pack are always available. Dinner is al fresco at the rooftop Tazama Restaurant. Next to Tazama is the swimming pool and gym, but with controlled access to ensure social distancing. The spa reopen this month too. Non-resident guests can dine between 5pm and 7pm, but only in the private dining rooms. Breakfast is served at the main Marketplace Restaurant or in your room.