• As the government continues to impose stricter regulations to control the spread of coronavirus, it is surprising bureaucrats don’t understand why people are travelling to upcountry of rural homes. While buying fruits at a neighbourhood grocery store, one of the attendants noticed that I had plenty of fruits in my basket. Dressed in a polo shirt, the uniform of the store, he walked slowly toward me and asked “Are you scared?” I gave a small grin, and he continued to say, “Most customers are looking for these products.” I ask amused, “What products?” He said: “Ginger, lemon, oranges and garlic.” Then he concluded; “This flu won’t affect us, I am not afraid.” Myths travel faster than truth. Many young people hardly believe that they can get sick from this “common flu” because they are too strong and they have experienced far worse than a bad cough. But let’s be realistic, there is no way we can lockdown or impose a curfew on young people. Most work in places that require their physical presence—in the informal sector. Many live in homes without access to any water. Others in crowded spaces, where closing schools keeps children in an equally crowded environment (at home) all day. As the government continues to impose stricter regulations to control the spread of coronavirus, it is surprising bureaucrats don’t understand why people are travelling to upcountry of rural homes. How else will they survive? Perhaps, at least there, they can depend on food from their family land. And do we have enough facilities in the counties? Counties are converting maternity wings into isolation wards that have the bare minimum facilities. What is even worrying is the need for those suffering from chronic illness—like cancer and kidney aliments—and have to visit health facilities during this time of coronavirus pandemic. Low immunity These individuals are the very ones at risk because of their low immunity and are constantly putting their lives at risk, to step out of their homes to receive the medical attention that they desperately need. One fact remains constant, one effective of reducing the spread of the virus is by isolation. But quarantine conditions cannot be the same in Africa as other parts of the world.Many people feel that they have no sense of control on the matter, and that their faith will keep them alive. They cannot afford the sanitisers, or even to stock up food that can last more than a day. They are used to surviving day-by-day, by the grace of God. They are always in survival mode. So if force is used to keep them in their homes, then the government should prepare for anarchy. This is because man will do what he can to feed his dependants, especially in desperate situations. Wako-Ojiwa is the Executive Director, Siasa Place @NerimaW   The number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the country increases to 110. South Africa, which has more infections than any other African country