In February 2016, Comrade Yoweri Museveni won the presidential election and called the press for a briefing. Giving insight of the things to come, Museveni who was in high spirits predicted—now we can safely say prophesied—that the political opposition as we knew it then would be no more by the time the next election is held in 2021. As is expected of the winning candidate, Comrade Museveni went ahead to start selecting his cabinet. Now we have this difficult area called Karamoja in the north east of the country, bordering Kenya. So underdeveloped is Karamoja (the colonialists deliberately kept it that way so as not to disturb its natural attractions) that the contemporary government deemed it necessary to dedicate a couple of cabinet portfolios to the region. That time four years ago, Museveni appointed a man whose surname is Kizige as the Minister of State for Karamoja. Ugandans soon put the 2016 elections behind them and returned to their daily struggles as life returned to normal. Then soon enough, a bitter struggle erupted in the biggest opposition party—Forum for Democratic Change (FDC). Comrades who had risked everything and fought side by side in the bush war that ended in 1986, then at the height their power and privilege in Comrade Museveni’s government went ahead to disagree with their leader and ended up in the FDC, fell apart. Major General Mugisha Muntu and Colonel Kizza Besigye went separate ways, damaging FDC irreparably. Then the once powerful Uganda People’s Congress, the only political party besides Museveni’s NRM to ever rule independent Uganda (moreover twice), also disintegrated. Its top leaders now only have the ruling NRM (which they are supposed to rival) as their strong ally. Then the country’s oldest political and remaining significant opposition party, the Democratic Party (DP), has started serving the public with its bizarre disintegration movie, as if rushing to beat the 2021 deadline to fulfill Museveni’s 2016 prophesy. DP’s senior-most members are trying to pull their president general from his seat and he holds onto it tenaciously.Back to 2016, Museveni appointed Kizige state minister for Karamoja as stated above. Four years later, the biggest humanitarian, economic and entomological threat to Uganda emerged on the horizon from the east—the desert locusts called nzige. Kizige means a big locust in our languages. Karamoja was their entry point into Uganda. Two thousand troops of the national army were deployed to Karamoja to confront the locusts. But the political head, the duty bearer for tackling nzige is Kizige. Try and beat that! If not sheer inspired prophesy, what else could have led Museveni to pick on a Kizige to fight the nzige before anyone knew they would invade four years later?Now Comrade Prophet Museveni is leading his party into the electoral battle for 2021 different from the one he fought in 2016. With main parties disintegrating, a new, untested force has emerged with the interesting name of People Power, led by reggae musician-turned politician Robert Kyagulanyi, better known as Bobi Wine. He may be the man of the moment, but chances of the opposition forces rallying behind Bobi Wine are still quite slim. If nothing changes fast in the opposition, Uganda seems set for another boringly predictable election outcome. Joachim Buwembo is a Kampala-based journalist. Email:buwembo@gmail.com   This is the moment they had been waiting for: A guarantee that they can return home. Media tycoon endorses Joe Biden after being snubbed by voters on Super Tuesday.