President Uhuru Kenyatta finally ordered a series of actions in the face of the existential threat posed by the coronavirus. Before the president’s action, there had been public alarm among Kenyans and anger over the government’s silence on such a grave threat to the country. This unease was amplified by the urgent and comprehensive measures rich countries were taking to protect their citizens. In China, the worst hit, President Xi Jinping took personal charge of the response. In a matter of days, two large hospitals were built, once again demonstrating a tough-mindedness that has underpinned China’s rise from a fishing village a few decades ago into a global technological, economic and military power. The unease among Kenyans was not idle behaviour. There is a tragic history of government’s weak and negligent response to threats and dangers facing the country. Take the case of drought, for instance. Since independence, despite expert warnings beforehand, drought and consequential famine have always caught us flat-footed, resulting in needless deaths and suffering. In the face of the 2016-2017 famine, Willy Bett, then agriculture minister, boasted that Kenya was on top of the crisis because fewer people and livestock had died as compared to previous famines. Yes, we measure success by the number of deaths! Again in the midst of the Asian flu crisis some years ago, rugby players returning from a tournament in Asia slipped into the country without screening. The current locust menace had been foretold, yet the ministry was caught napping. The response by former Agriculture Minister Mwangi Kiunjuri would have offered comic relief had it not had such tragic consequences. When you spot a locust, the minster advised Kenyans, take photos and send them to us or post them on social media. We also know of a former security minister’s bumbling response to the terrorist attack at the Westgate Mall. And so on ad nauseam. African countries often bear the brunt of natural or man-made disasters not because of lack of knowledge or technical capacity, but because of poor leadership and organisational ability. These deficiencies are supported by a culture that discourages values such as diligence and selflessness and, instead, encourages negligent and selfish behaviour. In this culture, public office is seen as a perquisite not as a tool for transforming society. Thus a former minister, educated at Stanford University, proclaimed with pride that the use of her ministerial position was to enable her to avoid traffic jams. President Kenyatta’s directives on the coronavirus were an anomaly in our governance culture. They were decisive and comprehensive and, importantly, demanded the highest possible standards of performance by officials. The tone indicated that failure was not an option. If only he could apply the same approach to other government operations and the same message to his “tumbocrats” (bureaucrats). That is the governance approach that underpins Rwanda’s transformation. Tee Ngugi is a Nairobi-based political commentator   In South Sudan, sorghum is king of crops. Report: Ethiopian aircraft crashed at speed of 926 kilometres per hour.