My office phone rang at 4.25pm just as I was heading out at the end of my work week. I almost ignored the call but my sense of duty and respect for my work forced me pick it. It was the director and I didn’t expect her to call me at this time of day so there had to be a good reason for her phone call. She sounded glad to have got hold of me. “I apologise for calling you at this time as I know you are almost headed home. I wanted to let you and your colleagues know that you are all required to work from home from Monday for the next 14 days,” she said. I first heard of the Wuhan coronavirus on the news on January 21. A man in his 30s from my county, the Snohomish County of Washington State, was the first reported case in the United States. The sick man had recently travelled to Wuhan, China. I didn’t think much of the report then. On February 29, I again heard on the news that there was a possible outbreak of the coronavirus in a nursing home facility in Kirkland, which is near where I live. Experts on TV were stressing the importance of taking measures to plan for the possibility that the virus won’t be contained. I was now beginning to get worried. The disease was too close to where I live and I wondered how I could avoid going to the shops, to church or sharing public transportation with people who could be linked to the sick in Kirkland. I wondered what would happen to me if I got sick while so far away from my homeland. To add to my fears, the news on March 5 reported that there was a new coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the Seattle area. Washington State was now at the apex of the coronavirus infections in the United States with 70 people diagnosed with the virus, including 11 people who have died. Vice President Mike Pence visited Washington State last week and said the risk of contracting the virus for Americans is low. However, I can see that people are scared and worried. You don’t want to sit next to anyone who has a cough or is sneezing while on a train or bus. My colleague came to the office on Monday and had a cold. She was asked to go home by another colleague. I looked for cough drops to contain my cough so I wouldn’t be asked to work from home. There are long queues in shops as people rush to stock up on food and emergency items. I have seen people buying toilet paper in bulk. Some friends who live in Kirkland called to say they wanted to visit me but I politely told them I was away although I was home alone. Everyone is becoming over cautious. I got an email saying that my gym has been closed. People are trying to maintain a distance of six feet between others as much as possible. My network meetings have been cancelled as most people avoid face-to-face meetings and opt for phone calls, emails and text messages. My fears of the coronavirus are made worse by the fact that health experts say that there is a lot that is still unknown about the disease. For the next 14 days, I’ll be working from home.   Cancellation notices from 37 vessels that were due to dock this month received. The deal ends a three-year tussle with Kampala and secures the firm’s future operations.