Secret Garden House Distillery is one of Rwanda’s hidden gems offering a taste of brandies and liqueurs and lessons on the art of distilling. I left my house shortly after 9am on a sunny Friday morning and headed to KG 6 Ave 56. The Secret Garden House distillery is located in Kigali’s Kimihurura neighbourhood, a short distance away from the Kigali Convention Centre and opposite Inka Steakhouse. The distillery is in a bungalow surrounded by a lush garden. The house has a showroom and storage area, and a back house, which serves as the production site. Secret Garden House Distillery has only been having tours for about a year since it opened and they plan to host guests more often as part of the Visit Rwanda tourism circuit.    I was welcomed at the gate by Tobias Rothe who was sitting in for Katrin Stelzer who is the proprietor of the establishment. Ms Stelzer started the Secret Garden House Distillery after winning a prize in her homeland Germany to travel with delegations across several countries. She decided to settle in Rwanda and resolved to start something akin to what her grandfather had in Germany — a schnapps distillery. The tour started with a welcome cocktail made with Rwanda schnapps. We then proceeded to the backhouse, which housed the production site where a wide selection of brandies, liqueurs, vinegars, jam and herb oils were being made. Mr Rothe guided the tour. “All our products are made from local Rwandan fruits and are completely natural. The fruits are cut into pieces and put into barrels with yeast, which transforms the sugar in the fruit into alcohol. It is a natural form of fermentation. There is no industrial alcohol used in making it and everything is made out of the fruit itself,” he said. Secret Garden sources fruits directly from local farmers and co-operatives in the country. The farmers are given contracts, enabling them to have a stable income to plan their fruit production in advance. The farmers are instructed on the degree of ripeness and other criteria for the fruits. “Our hand-forged copper kettles and distillers are imported from Germany and were produced specifically to meet Madam Katrin’s needs. Our schnapps are distilled three times and each time makes it smoother. This creates a strong but smooth taste that doesn’t burn,” Mr Rothe said.    They process 50 tonnes of fruit and one tonne of herbs depending on the season, from which they get about 5,000 litres of fruit brandies and liqueurs. Local fruits such as pineapple, mango, tree tomatoes, papaya, hibiscus flower and passion fruit are processed to produce fruit spirits. The water used to dilute all the concentrates comes from the Volcanoes National Park. At the end of the tour, Mr Rothe escorted us back to the showroom, which had a little shop stocked with all the processed products that they export outside the country. These include schnapps, liquors, vinegars, cooking oils, jams and marmalade. In the living room of the house was a bar and table set-up with a display of all the alcoholic products on offer including ready-made cocktails. They served us black forest tapas on home-baked bread together with German sausage specialities and homemade lard. After the food, we got to taste the different liqueurs from coffee, otamarillo, mint and lemon, pineapple and mango. I could still taste the fruit and the brandies had 40 per cent alcohol while the liquors had 20 per cent. The guided tours, seminars and tastings to companies teach about the history, development and the process of distilling and after you can go home with a little Schnapps that you have distilled. I went home telling everyone I know about the gem that is Secret Garden House distillery.   Formation of the transitional govt could be delayed over disagreements. Pastoralists will pay hefty fines whenever their herds cross the common borders.