The Malaso World’s End Viewpoint at the floor of the Kenyan Rift Valley in Samburu forms one of the steepest escarpments across the Eastern Gregory Rift. Much of this area is characterised by dry rolling savannah woodlands, fertile soils from solidified lava flows and vertiginous escarpments straddling Samburu, Turkana and Baringo counties. Malaso is often referred to as the “Earth’s End”, named by British explorer, writer and resident of Maralal, the late Sir Wilfred Thesiger, who described it in his books The Life of My Choice and My Kenya Days. Our journey to Malaso from Nairobi was in three parts — from Nairobi to Nyahururu; Nyahururu to Maralal; Maralal to Malaso. We drove down the Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit road to Naivasha. As we were cruising, Mount Longonot came into view and became our constant companion for an hour. The journey from Nairobi to Nyahururu took about four hours. After having lunch in Nyahururu, we resumed the journey to Maralal. The winding road through rolling hills and valleys led to Rumuruti an hour later. This town, we were told, would be the last we would be seeing of civilisation. An hour and a half past Rumuruti town, we branched left onto a murram road and thus began the head tossing up and down the rough roads. We arrived at Maralal from Nyahururu four hours later, dusty and exhausted, and were rewarded with the sight of a red sunset. We walked down Maralal’s dusty streets, lined with colourful shops and goats strolling in the middle of the town. Maralal is renowned for the annual International Camel Derby. In the morning, we took the first stretch of the murram road north from Maralal towards Baragoi. The road climbed high into the podocarpus forests of the Samburu National Reserve before dropping to the Lopet Plateau and the Elbarta Plains. Twenty kilometres from Maralal, we took a detour through Poro, and 6km later we were at the dramatic scimitar edge of Losiolo Escarpment. The escarpment is part of the Malaso ecotourism project, and is commonly referred to as Malaso. We were charged Ksh200 ($2) as a viewing fee to support the locals who take care of the area. Malaso’s Losiolo escarpment is just not an ordinary escarpment, it is a colossal amphitheatre that drops down more than 2,000 metres. At the edge of what is one of the most dramatic viewpoints of the Great Rift Valley lies the most spectacular panoramic views I have ever seen. The Losiolo escarpment plunges down to form gorges, peaks, plains which form the Suguta Valley and beyond that on the horizon is a very faint blue that is Lake Turkana. Across the left of the escarpment is a very faint range of Hills which we are told is Cherangani Hills. It is barricaded with a steel barrier to prevent people from falling over the edge. Sunsets and sunrises at Malaso are a sight to behold. The place has become a paradise for landscape photographers, bird watchers and hikers. The two-hour hike down the escarpment is especially worthwhile in the company of guides along the breath-taking cliffs and down to the valley floor. It is best to do the walks on Saturday, when there is a traditional market being held where Pokot and Samburu trade agricultural produce and animals.   Formation of the transitional govt could be delayed over disagreements. Pastoralists will pay hefty fines whenever their herds cross the common borders.