Huguette Umutoni Bitega is a Geneva-based Rwandan public relations and communication strategist, social justice advocate. She formerly worked as a specialist in regional and government engagement at the World Economic Forum before her new role managing talent at the World Bank. She is keen on fashion, arts, culture, food and music with her lifelong goal being that of rewriting the African narrative and connecting people. -------------------------- Are you a relaxed or anxious traveller? I am a completely relaxed and make a point of not stressing. I am actually travelling tonight. As long as there is a waiting lounge to relax as I await my flight. How often do you fly? Almost every other week. I kind of rent my apartment for nothing. Because I am really never there. It has been so for the past two years. So, I would say I travel probably 80 per cent of my time which is quite a lot. How do you prepare for a flight? It depends on the day, as long as I know what time my flight is and how I am going to get there. There are days when I pack in advance. I always need to be prepared to be ready. So, I might organise drinks with friends beforehand. What is your best airport? I am based in Geneva, so I honestly like Zurich Airport in Switzerland. I am a frequent flyer and prefer Star Alliance member airlines and their lounge because they have good food and it is spacious. I also enjoyed Istanbul Airport in Turkey because you get to sleep in a room. Frankfurt is really good too. What do you do on long flights? I always take a book along. In the past year, it has been hard to focus and read, but it is work-in-progress. I also enjoy watching a movie as I do not sleep much on planes. But I am a movie buff and will try to catch up on all the latest movies because I rarely watch TV. In fact, I haven’t owned a TV in the past 10 years. Are you particular about flying business or economy? Once you go business, it is difficult to accept economy. So, I will always go business if I can. It is all about comfort since most of my trips are business-related and my work requires flying into the continent which is about a nine-hour flight. And they expect me to arrive and get to work straight away. So, it can be a struggle. The seat is always very important for legroom and space. Do you have any peculiar routines in-flight? It depends with where I am going. For instance, whenever I am coming to the continent I use the Brussels route in order to notch up my miles. I am very picky about my miles. It gives me a different kind of access. I am aiming for a Platinum package so that it stays for life. You get access to airport lounges for life and get upgraded easily. How do you dress for a flight? I don’t like trousers. I dress comfortably but in a dress because you never really know who you could meet. What are your five things to take on a long flight? Lately, I carry eye masks especially if flying economy, my moisturiser or face cream and Maasai blanket. Planes are always cold and they give you a blanket. However, my Maasai one is better. I also take trainers and contrasting socks because once you are in the plane it is good for your blood circulation. Additionally, I carry my phone, charger, power bank and a book I like. Do you prefer taking a taxi or to be dropped off and picked up by a friend or family member? If a friend or family member who can drop me off or pick me up that would be fantastic. But it depends on where you are and the city I am in.   This year’s festival pulled in 8,000 people daily from February 13 to 16, from all over the They urged authorities to ensure their safety at the border.