Profile The World Health Organisation public health advisor for Ebola vaccine Peter Githua spoke with Irene Wainaina about the coronavirus and how countries can best prepare in case of an outbreak. ----------------------------------------------- Based on your experience working with infectious diseases, and having been involved in the containment of Ebola in West Africa and the Democratic Republic of Congo, how worried should East Africans be of coronavirus? We should not be, going by the fatality rate at most being 3.5 per cent, compared with the waning Ebola outbreak in DR Congo which is at 67 per cent. Although about 16 per cent-20 per cent of those infected with the coronavirus will be severely ill and will need treatment. However, in terms of morbidity and strain on existing health systems, we should be worried. If poor West African countries, with almost non-existent medical systems, with the world’s help put in place protocols that stopped Ebola, how better placed is East Africa in case the Covid-19 gets here? And what areas do we need to focus on? We are better placed. There are already existing generic protocols that can rapidly be deployed to contain Covid-19. We also have access to expertise in disease outbreak prevention as well as preliminary knowledge on the characteristics of Covid-19 based on experiences and data from Chinese cases. Political will in implementing quarantine of infectious individuals would be important. How should governments prepare? By having generic pandemic preparedness plans that include trained risk management personnel. These should be easy to adapt to various scenarios. Private-public partnerships should be utilised fully, including research and training in emerging infectious diseases. How do you gauge the global response to Covid-19 compared with that of Ebola? There were lapses in the initial response, which I believe aided the spread to various countries around the world. What were some of these lapses? Significant delays in identifying the severity and numbers of the infected, restricting travel from the epicentre of the infection, Wuhan city. It is estimated that five million people left the region; unclear policies on isolation criteria such as delays in standardising testing criteria. China changed the case definition of the disease, limiting people who were tested. Would these lapses factor in this current situation? Yes. Travel restrictions on potentially infectious individuals is extremely important. Also isolation criteria, that is who is at high risk of spreading the infection; trained medical personnel able to safely isolate; test and manage patient; isolation facilities with infection prevention and control guidelines. Did we learn anything about responding to outbreaks from the Ebola outbreaks? To an extent yes. The WHO was quick to declare Covid-19 a public health emergency of international concern, which unlocks international funding and collaboration in control activities. Airport screening of travellers was instituted early in many countries. We were however slow in recognising the outbreak. According to the 2019 Global Health Security Index, no country in the world is fully prepared for epidemics or pandemics. Is this true? Yes. It is nearly impossible to be fully prepared for an infectious disease epidemic. This is because infectious diseases have different characteristics, including mode of spread and how to manage the infected. New diseases are difficult to manage as you learn characteristics essentially in real time. So how helpful are the do’s and don'ts we’re being told to practise such as washing of hands regularly and using hand sanitiser and not touching the face? Very helpful actually. The best way to control Covid-19 is to prevent new infections. Since this is an aerosol-spread infection, eliminating possible transmission is relatively easy. With social distancing, appropriate and correct use of masks, basic hygiene measures we can control acquisition of new infections. Should travel restrictions apply? Travel restriction of potentially infectious individuals is the most important part of controlling a pandemic. Given that currently data describing seasonality, epidemiology, transmission patterns and disease burden from human influenza in the African region is limited, could Covid-19 cases go undetected? Yes, it is possible there might be sub-clinical cases, meaning a disease that is not severe enough to present definite or readily observable symptoms. Remember, about 80 per cent of patients with Covid-19 infection will only have very mild symptoms or be asymptomatic. Luckily, these patients are not infectious.   The patient is a Belgian citizen who had been in Congo for several days. Khartoum stands alone as Arab League minister throw their weight behind Cairo