A a number of restaurants and wine bars have opened in Dar es Salaam in recent times. Last weekend my friends and I set out to sample one of these establishments. Zaika is a laid back but classy establishment on Haile Selassie Road, a few metres to the beach at Masaki Peninsula. It offers diners the freedom to eat, talk, take pictures and generally enjoy each others company without a struggle. I rarely go out with friends due to school, work and other obligations. So a night out for a sumptuous meal and glass of wine plus good conversations, was a moment to treasure. We made reservations for 15 people from around 7:30pm to midnight. However, walk-in customers are also welcome to dine at Zaika. For a dinner with creamy chicken soup for starters, to the main course with two meat dishes to pick from—beef or chicken—to ice cream and fruit salad for dessert plus either water or soda at Tsh30,000 ($13) per person, is a great bargain! But you can pay Tsh45,000 ($19.5) per person and get three options for the main course including fish and pasta, with both water and soda included. Clad in our African print attires, we arrived at the venue on time. The buffet was laid out in a long built-in table together with a welcome sign which made us feel special. There was an array of dishes, ranging from Indian, continental to local Tanzanian cuisine. Our table, long with 15 chairs and flowers, was laid out in the middle of the room with platters and wine glasses. For starters, we had creamy chicken mushroom soup served with garlic bread in a rectangle basket. Pumpkin soup was an option which we avoided because most of us had had a bad experience at other restaurants. For the main course, I picked a reddish Tandoori chicken—skinless drumsticks marinated in a mixture of yoghurt, lemon juice and spices—which was by far my favourite. The options included nyama choma (roast meat), and roast chicken, served with Indian vegetable rice, roasted banana and French fries plus a variety of vegetables. I had my Tandoori chicken with vegetable rice, some French fries, coconut creamed pumpkin leaves and spinach—my go-to local vegetable meal. The dessert was even more exciting. Picture having to pick from hot chocolate cake, banana sponge pudding and an ice cream of your choice. We were spoilt for choice. I went for ice cream—a dark chocolate, strawberry and vanilla. Well, they say strawberries and dark chocolate have health benefits...which means I can indulge without feeling guilty. During the entire time I learned that dining with close friends can elevate a normal meal into a magnificent one. The experience was nothing short of magnificent. Valentine’s Day and New Year celebrations may be over but even for a Sunday call out for a date with friends and family, Zaika restaurant will not disappoint.   The patient is a Belgian citizen who had been in Congo for several days. Khartoum stands alone as Arab League minister throw their weight behind Cairo