Serena Hotels has opened a new property in Goma, the capital of North Kivu province in eastern DRC. The five-star Goma Serena Hotel is located at the lakefront of Lake Kivu. The hotel, which officially opened its doors last Tuesday, is close to Kahuzi-Biega National Park and the active volcanic Mt Nyiragongo. It is a 10-minute drive from the Goma International Airport and a five-minute drive from the Rwanda border at Gisenyi. In a press release, group managing director of TPS Serena Hotels – Africa, Mahmud Jan Mohamed said: “Expansion of the Serena brand through the opening of Goma Serena Hotel in the Democratic Republic of Congo is a welcome addition to the Serena portfolio in Africa.” The 109-room hotel offers food and beverage outlets, a resident’s lounge, and conference, meeting, and banquet facilities. Residents can enjoy the Maisha Health Club and Spa, gym, Olympic-sized swimming pool, and nightclub. Every room has a private balcony with a view of Lake Kivu, a jacuzzi, and a rain shower. The executive suites have a rotating TV screen, a kitchenette, and a visitor’s cloakroom. The hotel and its surroundings including the gardens have ramps, a special elevator, and room for persons with disabilities. The hotel's general manager, James Nzavwala, said they are ready to receive guests. "We are working with an incredible team of staff who underwent rigorous training before the opening of the hotel," he said. From Goma, one can climb Mount Nyirangongo and see the caldera lake, or go in search of the Grauer's gorillas in the south of Kivu at Kahuzi–Biega National Park. Grauer's is the largest of the four gorilla species. You can also make your way to the Virunga National Park to see the mountain gorillas, or the bonobos and the African forest elephants that can only be found in the DRC. If you enjoy watersports, Lake Kivu awaits. The location of the hotel was strategic for tourism in the region. "With our existing Seran portfolio, the hotel will benefit from the group's regional presence and we can offer a safari circuit covering Kenya, Mozambique, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, Zanzibar and now the DRC," Mr Mohamed said. The hotel currently has special offers and travelling packages tailored to the guest's needs.