• Lab staff from EAC countries Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda have undergone training at the Bernhard Nocht Institute for tropical medicine in Hamburg and in Tanzanian city Arusha. • Across Africa, only 25,461 people had tested positive for the novel coronavirus by 1900 GMT Wednesday, according to an AFP tally from official sources. • But the pandemic is still in its early stages on the continent, with fears the virus could spread quickly through densely populated cities and refugee camps. Uganda and Rwanda have taken delivery of two mobile diagnostic labs to help fight the coronavirus pandemic, the first in a network of German-funded units for East Africa, public investment bank KfW said Thursday. While the project to procure the labs and train staff has been underway since 2018, "they're arriving at exactly the right moment to help with fighting," the virus, KfW board member Joachim Nagel said in a statement. More of the mobile units "for speedy and modern diagnosis of infectious disease" will arrive in the six countries of the East African Community (EAC) region in the coming days, KfW said, for a total of nine in the first phase. Under contract from the Development Ministry in Berlin, KfW has pumped 27 million euros ($29.1 million) into the project. Lab staff from EAC countries Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and Uganda have undergone training at the Bernhard Nocht Institute for tropical medicine in Hamburg and in Tanzanian city Arusha. Across Africa, only 25,461 people had tested positive for the novel coronavirus by 1900 GMT Wednesday, according to an AFP tally from official sources. But the pandemic is still in its early stages on the continent, with fears the virus could spread quickly through densely populated cities and refugee camps. German Development Minister Gerd Mueller urged Berlin to invest a further three billion euros in battling the pandemic in poorer countries, on top of just over one billion already earmarked. Wealthy nations must help prevent "first hospitals and then entire states collapsing," Mueller told the Funke newspaper group. "Hunger, unrest and, in the end, uncontrollable refugee movements" could result otherwise, he warned. Germany has begun easing curbs on public life after ministers said the contagion had been brought under control. Rapid and widespread testing of the population for cases has been at the centre of Berlin's containment strategy.   This raises the country's total number of confirmed cases to 320. Tanzanian President says the money can boost the fight against coronavirus.