This pandemic has exposed us to a vast number of inequalities within our society — the huge gap between our public and private sectors more so, in health and education. Just over a week ago, after many days of the same old, this lockdown got to me. I badly wanted to be around people for some human contact. I wanted to shake hands and hug my loved ones, see the smile on other faces and not have them hidden behind masks. I decided to go out for a walk with the now mandatory face masks on. It felt good to feel the ground on my feet. I was zoning out and didn’t feel like reaching out, but common sense prevailed and I acknowledged that I was struggling. The mental strain during this pandemic is real. I live alone and on most days I am my best company. However, this current situation has me spending a lot of time on the phone having humorous and intense conversations. I’m having longer conversations with friends as we mull over the facts, data and various government responses. I find myself continuously questioning this utterly surreal time in global history. I’m also taking stock of the season and wondering what the takeaways are. Is the previous way of life worth going back to? Don’t get me wrong, I want this to end, but that “normal” of the past isn’t worth going back to. Vast inequalities This pandemic has exposed us to a vast number of inequalities within our society — the huge gap between our public and private sectors more so, in health and education. This virus has also shown us how blind we had become to our environment. Old skylines are reappearing clearly. There’s also a lot more concern for our frontline workers. There’s more kindness being shown because of the limited human interaction. I don’t think the eight-hour work day will be the norm and working from home will no longer be seen as absconding. Personal safety when it comes to passenger travel will now involve better hygiene. Hopefully, and really hopefully, this will cause us to demand more and better from our elected leaders and governments. Do you foresee yourself spending hours in a commute to and from work? Have you seen friendships that you struggled with fizzle out or revived? Have you reignited dreams that had been put on the back burner? Is the impossible now possible? I honestly believe that we are being given an opportunity to reset our lives. We need to do this for ourselves and in honour of the many who have lost their lives to this invisible enemy. Pope Francis in one of his recent mediations said, “In this storm, the façade of those stereotypes with which we camouflaged our egos, always worrying about our image, has fallen away, uncovering once more that common belonging, of which we cannot be deprived: Our belonging as brothers and sisters, it is a time to choose what matters and what passes away, a time to separate what is necessary from what is not. It is a time to get our lives back on track with regard to you, Lord, and to others.” We have been here already. Remember, when Aids broke out? We were scared into condoms and that period has forever changed the way we have sex. The terrorist attacks of September 9-11 in the US have changed the way we travel. Once this is over, what kind of life and world do you want to go back to? I know for sure, I want a better life for myself and the environment. But more so, I want a world where those who make a living from the informal sector—like hawkers, bodaboda riders, matter to all of us. This pandemic is a new blueprint to a life that needs reworking, rebuilding and reshaping.   Rwanda is ramping up its testing for the coronavirus through periodic community testing. ‘We defected from SPLM/A-IO because of the way the party is being managed’.