The rat scurried to and from its hole in the dirty, graffiti covered wall opposite Jane’s bed. In the dim lighting, you could see its dark form and swishing tail, hear its little claws as it hurried on this way and that, doing whatever it was rats did. Jane lay prone on a thin, flimsy mattress atop the thin, rickety bed, head turned to one side as she watched the rodent with a detached curiosity and an anxious mind that was not betrayed by her relaxed position. She hadn’t moved in hours. Not to stretch, turn her head or adjust her body at all, and the biting agony of pins and needles in her arms and legs and the cramps she could feel starting in her lower back were forcing her to seek distraction or break, so she focused on the resident rodent’s activities. “Just a few more minutes.” She exhaled almost silently to herself, but apparently not quietly enough, as the rat paused shock still then made a mad dash for its hidey-hole. “Attention!” A raspy voice boomed out suddenly. Jane sighed and rolled over immediately it sounded, an ear to ear grin on her face even as she painfully tried to regain the lost feelings in her stiff body. “Attention, all inmates report to the break-room!” The raspy voice came again as Jane got to her feet. The doors of the cells slid open in unison, a clamour that resounded for several seconds after the prisoners had already begun their slow, sullen shuffle towards the break-room for their morning meal and announcements. Once everyone had assembled in the cavernous and cold space, jostled for their food and eaten, the wizened but still sharp as paper warden stepped forward and began speaking. Jane had been focused on cleaning the last remaining bits of porridge from the sides of her bowl when she heard this, and her arm shot into the air. “Ah, yes you over there…Uhh,” the warden strained to read Jane’s uniform number, “Inmate 485 and…?” There was complete silence. Apart from the wheezing breath of some of the older prisoners, you couldn’t hear a single thing. No one, no one wanted to volunteer for that duty. It was absolutely disgusting down in the hold where they kept bodies awaiting the once a week pick-up by the city mortuary. There was enough misery already, why would anyone want more? “Very well then, I’ll choose,” the warden continued after the deafening silence, “Hmm, Inmate 621... Right…Well, that’s it for today, now move it!” Jane’s breathing was shallow as she and 621 manoeuvred against the tide of prisoners in the opposite direction to a barred door with a stern, bored prison guard manning it. The guard nodded to them, and they followed her down a brightly lit corridor to the medical wing. She buzzed them in with her pass and waited impatiently, tapping her foot as Jane and 621 proceeded to wheel the covered gurney out. Then they were off, the guard walking much faster, as if she wished to put as much space between her and them. The corridors got narrower with every turn, dimmer and more dingy, with pools of stagnant leak water staining the floor and making for treacherous going. “In there,” the guard jerked her head as she came to a halt in front of two massive, double glass paned doors. Her nose was wrinkled, her brow furrowed with disgust as she added, “Go on! I’m not going in,” then she was off. Jane and 621 pushed through the doors and immediately held their breath as a cold blast of air hit them. Shivers run up them both and 621 visibly shuddered as she tentatively followed Jane’s lead into the windowless room. They had the job of not only helping Claude into a body bag, but also, carrying the other two bodies up to the courtyard, and since there were no lifts for the gurney to fit into, the latter would be by hand… By the time 621 was back for the second body, Jane was almost done. Her heart was racing but as she spoke she was all composure. “I’m almost done,” she said as 621 looked at the second body reproachfully before hauling it up, “I will just leave her over there by the door for you,” Jane continued casually as 621 shot her a murderous look, “Hey, a deal is a deal,” she called out to 621’s retreating back. She worked quickly once the doors swung shut, the speed helping her to block the fear and revulsion threatening to overwhelm her. Unzipping Claude, she wheeled the gurney to a cupboard containing chemicals and supplies, less than gently fit the body in, pushed the gurney over near the door, climbed into the now empty bag, zipped it with lots of difficulty, and went limp the way she’d practiced in her cell just as 621 came back in. “Finally, last one…” 621 mumbled audibly as she heaved Jane off the gurney and off onto the floor, “Stupid warden, stupid 485.” Outer courtyard It was a seemingly never ending walk, and then suddenly, she was deposited unceremoniously onto a hard, uneven surface. She was in the outer courtyard. Now, it was all about her practice, she couldn’t move a muscle, couldn’t cough or sneeze or breathe visibly until the mortuary truck came, and that could be anything from one or two to up to four hours. Who kept time? The dead weren’t going anywhere. In the darkness of the body bag, Jane too had lost track of time. It was hot and hard to breathe, and she was beginning to panic about being missed. She was almost startled to motion when someone grabbed at her feet and she was roughly carried. But what was that…yes! She could hear the distinct hum of a waiting vehicle! The taste of freedom was sweet even as she lay there in the back of the truck, in her grim surroundings. As soon as she was sure they were clear of the prison, she unzipped herself, took deep gulp of air and steadied herself to jump out the back of the truck, only to find it locked from the outside… The vehicle came to a stop and the two attendants jumped out. Jane could hear their footsteps as they came round to the back, heard one take out keys and prepared herself mentally as she felt a searing disappointment at her failed attempt. The doors swung open and she came face to face with the two men. They stared at her. She stared at them. Then she made as if to get up, and the two young men turned on their heels and bolted. They’d been told these ones had been in the hold a week! Jane clambered out and stood there just a moment. She was free.   President Kenyatta reports rise in cases as he announces further measures to curb the spread. Rwanda is ramping up its testing for the coronavirus through periodic community testing.