This Easter will be like no other. Everyone everywhere is fighting a deadly invisible enemy; the coronavirus. This enemy is everywhere and can strike anyone at any time so I am supposed to stay home and have been home for three weeks. With the Easter season here, experts in the US keep reminding us that this is the time to strictly follow the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines on stopping the spread of coronavirus. They say the coming weeks are critical because anybody who got infected with the virus before the social distancing was put into effect will begin to show signs of the disease. I wonder how we keep going with this pandemic. Essential services Infections continue to rise and I understand we are yet to hit the Apex. A total 41 States in the US have issued stay-at-home orders for everyone except those working in essential services. This means that 93 per cent of the US population will be home or working remotely. Now, coronavirus unlike other viruses, has a long incubation period, meaning that one may appear healthy but still carries the virus and infecting others. Social distancing is working in models such as my Washington State, which issued social distancing early. Although the virus curve here has not flattened yet, infection cases are not rising steeply. The pandemic is like a deadly uncontrollable wild forest fire that destroys almost everything in its path. However, unlike a wild forest fire that can be seen and controlled, coronavirus is invisible. A lot is unknown about how it attacks and how long it will take to contain it but the coming weeks will be deadly. The military is taking extraordinary measures of isolating its personnel in order to protect them from the virus. The command team charged with domestic defence has moved its teams to various bunkers until the pandemic passes. I worry about how well my mother and everyone around her in my distant homeland is prepared for the pandemic. Every time I call her, she is never alone as she hosts evening prayer meetings for friends and neighbours. After the prayers, they listen to the radio for any news on the coronavirus. Shifting information I worry about my mother’s vulnerability. My mother and her neighbours have many questions about social distancing. The coronavirus pandemic calls for a lot of social change and we have to learn to live with this new norm. More people are looking to the leaders for answers. The leaders too don’t have all the answers about the virus as they too are learning and the information keeps shifting daily. This is the time everyone has to get involved and help fight the coronavirus pandemic in every way we can. We have to put the needs of others first. The children and elderly may need a lot of support and protection. Some of them are already in vulnerable situations. This Easter will not be like any other due to the social distancing and stay positive.   For the first time in centuries, Christians cannot meet together physically. The country was about to declare outbreak over