Nyumba Kumi was introduced in Kenya to promote community policing at the household level with the aim of achieving safe neighbourhoods. It was heavily borrowed from Tanzania’s Ujamaa policy, but the two countries have had different experiences in implementation. One can argue that because Kenya is capitalistic and has an individualistic approach and that Tanzania being socialistic, it was easier to convince Tanzanians to understand and appreciate community policing. The initiative did pick up well in Kenya, but some communities have benefited from this initiative and organised structures that function. In other localities, it flopped despite the big hype. But what is most interesting, it works mostly in are low-income areas. Research indicates that there are cases of lack of accountability when community members are asked to contribute resources, but no records to show how they were used. This could also be linked to the fact that members were not vetted, specifically the leaders, unlike in Tanzania. During this pandemic period there is worry that many people cannot go into self-isolation. As a matter of fact, comparing a lockdown in the US or UK to Kenya would be foolhardy. Lockdown measures must be centred on our culture. We know our neighbours—not all of us—but majority of us. It is unusual to keep to ourselves. Studies have shown that the virus seems to be spreading faster in low income areas, mainly due to crowed housing. This is one virus that we will have to depend on our neighbours to eradicate. Health facilities cannot maintain an influx of patients at one go. There has been talk about staying apart, which is unusual. Are there ways we can organise ourselves as communities and not every man for himself to fight the impact of the virus? Yes, by organising food distribution in our community, sharing the burden and finding ways to reduce the burden. In the end when it comes to fighting and controlling the virus, the burden will be shared with neighbours. Neighbours will be able to know if someone is unwell and report to authorities. Those in quarantine centres can rely on neighbours for occasional food supplies. Even those in self-isolation at home neighbours come in handy to cater for their basic needs. Nyumba Kumi is viewed as a security initiative, but it has a social welfare aspect of it. Thus in communities that has worked, it can play a major role in combating Covid-19. One major flaw is the lack of inclusivity of the youth and that is why it fails. Nerima Wako-Ojiwa Executive Director, Siasa Place @NerimaW   The continent has seen more than 17,000 confirmed cases of the virus. People who have tested positive for Covid-19 now stands at 246.