With the coronavirus crisis squeezing life out of our daily routines, with a national lockdown, I ventured outdoors one last time before things take a turn for the worst. The streets of Kigali are fast emptying since the first case of Covid-19 infection was recorded in the country. I was in search of one last gastronomic treat before eating out became a rumour. So I tried the relatively new restaurant, Soy Asian Table, which has had fantastic reviews on Google and TripAdvisor since it opened last year. It is located in Kimihurura, on KN 14 Avenue, a 10-minute drive from the CBD. The restaurant reimagines a modern Asian restaurant and is adorned with Buddha statuettes, sea blue walls with matching with blue tablemats, black tables and dining chairs. It is dotted with green plants all around with warm fluorescent pendant lights highlighting the restaurant’s ambience.I got to pick from the exhaustive menu options of Indian, Chinese, Korean, Japanese Malaysian, Thailand, Mongolian and Singaporean delicacies. I settled on a Thai green curry served with rice while my cousin settled on a Pad Thai. We decided to stick on the dishes we were familiar with to get an overall feel of the chef’s mastery of cuisine. The Thai green curry is made of rich coconut sauce with green curry paste, vegetables and chicken served with your choice of rice or noodles. The Pad Thai is rice noodles with vegetables and tofu. The curry was delicious perhaps the best curry I have had in a long time. It was bursting with flavour particularly the coconut which overwhelmed the green curry paste. It was sweet and savoury in equal measure. The chicken was tender and the vegetables tasted fresh enveloped in that delectable curry. The steamed rice on the other hand was soft and fluffy and gelled well with the tasty curry. Noodles & cocktails The Pad Thai was pretty good as well with the rice noodles cooked well and perfectly seasoned. The vegetables and tofu added for a tastier melange with an adequate squeeze of lime that acted as garnish for the meal. It was good but lacked that distinct tick to knock it out of the park. We also tried some cocktails at Soy Asian Table. I enjoyed the Schezuan cocktail served in a whisky glass which was one of the most potent cocktails I had ever had. This coupled up with other cocktails like the Chocolate Orange Martini, The Bubbly Rosy and Love & Her made for quite a treat. All in all, Soy Asian Table did match the hype.   Coronavirus cases in Kenya rise to 122. Rwanda has as at Friday recorded 82 cases of coronavirus.