The restrictions on movement of people due to the Covid-19 pandemic have seen fewer people visiting Kenya's parks and the National Museums of Kenya, resulting in reduced earnings from gate collections. Now the animals under the care of the of National Museums of Kenya(NMK) risk starvation, as the gate collection of about $300,000 per month that were used to cater for their food and general upkeep has dried up. Besides feeding the animals, the gate collections are also used for daily running of the institutions including paying utility bills and contracted services such as cleaning, security and fuel. NMK Director-General Mzalendo Kibunjia told The EastAfrican that he has reached out to the National Treasury for a bailout. "NMK could be the first government agency directly affected by the Covid-19, and it is our hope that the government will act quickly. "These animals are a major feature of our attractions, besides the rich cultural heritage collections that we have," he said. Before the outbreak, NMK was receiving thousands of visitors per day at their various institutions countrywide that included school and college students as well as tourists. NMK charges $3 per Kenyan adult and $1.5 per Kenyan child. East Africans are charged $8, and tourists from other parts of the world pay $15. The Treasury allocates funds to the institution in the annual budget and pays the NMK staff directly. However, the institution is required to lobby for funding from the donor community and other rich museums across the world to cater for their programmes. In the 2019/2020 budget, Treasury allocated $11.5 million for the consecration of heritage sites, and $810,000 for salaries for NMK staff. Purity Dasm from the Directorate of Antiquities, Sites and Monuments, said the institution has so far received $240,000 for development. "The government only pays our salaries and sometimes for development projects. This year we have received salary and development cash for repairs of several monuments. But right now we have no money for keeping the institution going. Live exhibits need about $10,000 per month," said Dr Dasm. The pandemic has hit the NMK hard with the recent announcement by Finance Secretary, Ukur Yatani that the government will start taxing chemicals, reagents, film strips and visual aid equipment imported or purchased by the NMK. In addition to the snake park at the Nairobi Museum, and the Mnarani, Gede, Kitale, Meru, Kisumu, Kabarnet, Kapenguria and Hyrax Hill museums around the country, the NMK takes care of 50 different kinds of animals that are fed daily. These animals include crocodiles, turtles, chameleons and guinea fowls. The Institute Primate Research in Nairobi hosts several moneys, which are the most affected. The NMK spends about $2,000 per day to feed the animals.   Health ministry reports two more positive cases and a total of 24 recoveries. The 10 state governors have yet to be appointed, nearly two months after unity govt.