Despite no official lockdown or curfew in Tanzania, many high-end restaurants in Dar es Salaam have opted to only offer take-away service to enable their customers to observe social distancing in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. However, there are those that closed down altogether. I decided to venture out and try Thai cuisine for the first time. I took the long trip to Thai Kan Restaurant along Msasani Beach near Slipway Hotel on the shores of the Indian Ocean. But, I was surprised to find the beachfront restaurant closed due to a staff meeting. I found out that the management was making a decision on the way forward for the establishment. The restaurant manager by the name of Chris blamed the closure on the outbreak, which was deterring customers from eating out. These closures are now the norm the world over and the hospitality industry has especially been hit hard due to travel restrictions in almost all countries. My next stop was the Zing restaurant, which specialises in Indian cuisine, located on Kahama Roads in the Msasani suburb. It was also closed not because of the pandemic, but for renovations. Construction workers were busy finishing up the final touches. Undeterred, I headed to the Sala Thai restaurant located on Toure Drive near Oyster-Bay shopping centre on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam. The restaurant was open but under strict conditions. My friend Musa and I were welcomed by a young receptionist who told us to first wash our hands before we could enter. She then informed us that we could only order take-way. The restaurant was empty and a waiter told us that they were no longer receiving walking-in customers. They were now taking orders for delivery or pick-up. The restaurant accepts online payments through all debit cards or by mobile money M-Pesa or Tigo Pesa. For those customers too far to pick their orders, the restaurant was delivering their food by courier service. We ordered stewed pork with white rice and curry, the popular Tom Yum seafood soup, which had shrimp, pork, squid, prawns and garnishings. For dessert, we had mango sticky rice, a traditional Thai dessert made with glutinous rice, fresh mango and coconut milk.   Health ministry gives update in Zoom meeting with senators ahead of daily briefing. Kenyan Embassy in Beijing issued notice on Friday.