Hilton Hotel in Nairobi, Kenya has been a major landmark of the city for the past half century. It recently celebrated its 50-year anniversary since it set up shop in the country. The hotel was the go-to-place for work and leisure for the elite before the likes of Villa Rosa Kempinski and Hemingways. It is located in the capital city’s Central Business District along Mama Ngina street just opposite the National Archives. Hilton remains a timeless edifice of architecture since it was built in 1969. The only change from its original layout is the emergency staircase that was installed in 1995 to meet international fire regulation standards. Walking into the hotel on my last day in Nairobi, the property was under tight security with concrete barriers surrounding the property and airport-like scanners at the front entrance of the hotel. Once I was past the scanners and security, I waltzed into the palatial lobby where a concierge showed me to the reception. Just across the lobby was a grand winding staircase that resembles old residences from the Victorian era. The hotel has three restaurants, the Travellers, which serves American, African, European and Asian cuisine; the pool garden, which is a grill/barbecue restaurant and Sale E Pepe an Italian restaurant. They also have Café American, a delightful Hollywood vintage themed café within the lobby that serves hot beverages and pastries and the Jockey Pub a British-style pub that serves beer and cocktails. I was keen on trying all the restaurants and cafes but I went in too early. I started with Café American in the lobby, but there were no attendants to serve me. So, I ended up settling for the pool restaurant, which was the only one open at that time. I was also keen on swimming. The pool restaurant offers an outdoor dining experience. It features a patio setup with hanging flower baskets, a garden of plants in ceramic vases, wicker chairs with wooden tables, a full bar under a canopy. After perusing the menu, I settled for a mixed grill platter, which came highly recommended. The Pool garden restaurant is serene with a relaxing ambiance and makes for a perfect hideaway from the city’s hustle and bustle. Famed for its grilled specialties, you can enjoy Kenyan barbecue every Wednesday by the poolside. I thoroughly enjoyed the mixed grill platter, composed of nyama choma style beef medallions, lamb chops, chicken breasts and beef sausages served with a side of French fries and a creamy mushroom sauce. The beef medallions were adequately seasoned and well done, the lamb chops were also well done and were the tastier of the two. The chicken breast was tender and seasoned with thyme. The beef sausage was cooked to perfection. The French fries were well salted, soft and crunchy, and served in a mini basket. The pool restaurant also offers various appetizers, salads, sandwiches, sauces, curries, snacks and desserts. It also has sea food options, halal and vegetarian options. I equally enjoyed the long island and gimlet cocktails made by Felix who graciously welcomed me to the establishment and made a point of checking on me from time to time. The Hilton excels in its warm hospitality and is a great place to unwind when in Nairobi’s central business district.   World Athletics on Friday announced a ban on using prototype shoes in competition. Hundreds of millions of the insects have swept over the Horn in the worst outbreak in 25 years.