As festive season decorations in shopping malls begin to light up and subtle Christmas carols play in the background, I have to say that this year’s festivities don’t feel like Christmas. But how can the end of the year feel like Christmas, considering the harsh impact of coronavirus? It is difficult to believe that we are in December. The entire year feels wasted and all months seemingly the same. Christmas is not just a day it is an event for us. If there was a vote to compare the various holidays that we celebrate and rated on the aspect of importance, Christmas would probably top the list. It is on this day, that fathers, husbands — and men generally — who hardly attend church show up. This is the time that children are focused on showing off their new clothes, because on this day most wear new outfits — their Christmas clothes. But the main reason why it doesn't feel like Christmas is that Christmas is all about going to the village, visiting family members, seeing grandparents and being able to bond and catch up. Indeed, we get to see some relatives once a year. But this year, just look at schools, holidays start on December 23, which is unheard of. Many families will hardly be able to travel as coronavirus cases rise. And with the constant reminders that we shouldn't be spreading it to the elderly, many of us will avoid travelling upcountry. Perhaps, but most important, people don’t have bonuses that they normally earn at the end of the year. Let's face it, there will be hardly any bonuses to speak of — and of course no parties. Most organisations have slashed salaries or terminated employees. There will hardly be any money floating around to splurge during this festive season. Many city dwellers are going to cancel travelling plans to the village. And even if they do travel, and with businesses being in a slump and we're not even sure how long it's going to take for them to pick up, the usual extravagant spending will be cut. But all in all, it's definitely a different Christmas. It's going to be the one Christmas that many of us might not be able to spend time with our extended families in the village, but it will be understood that we are not rude for not spending time with relatives. We might have to minimise a few things this year when it comes to celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ. Nerima Wako-Ojiwa is the executive director at Siasa Place @NerimaW