As we approach year-end we need to programme and position ourselves for change. Indeed, the three most common words of the new year, “happy new year” mean nothing if the only thing that changes is the calendar. What makes it a happy and new is that our thinking and mindset changed. This year has been like none other. Yes, some businesses did do very well during Covid. In fact, some have Covid to thank for staying afloat and did well. This is, however, not the same for most people. A lot of people lost their livelihoods, closed down their businesses and lost their breadwinners. It has been a tough year. Our biggest task for those of us who are here is to now get ready to take the future. Whatever your story in 2020, never forget your greatest achievement of the year, which is the fact that you survived a pandemic. Now that is a good positive position to build from. I wrote a book titled, Help my chocolate is melting, which was inspired by a movie I watched where a wealthy Asian prince told a builder to build him a magnificent palace but instead of bricks, he was to use chocolate. The builder started the project in winter. All was well until the sun began to shine and winter was over. The chocolate house melted. Many experience melting chocolate when the conditions they are used to suddenly change. It could be due to political, economic, social, technical or environmental factors. Many have suffered from melted chocolate as a result of Covid-19. It could be a loss in business or loss of job or so many other dynamics that have come with the pandemic. When the chocolate melts, people go through a lot of emotions from fear, to despair, to loss of self-confidence and then personal rejection. However, it must not stop there. They are all stops on to a new life. There are different characteristics of each phase after chocolate melts and you must develop the right mindset or software for each phase. Yes. The mindset is akin to a software which runs the entire system. Your mindset is the software that determines the direction of your life and getting the right software is key to overcoming anything life throws at you. Once the right mindset (software) has been installed, you reboot the system. What opportunities are hidden within the adversity? Many are blind to this because they are too consumed over the melted chocolate melted and are going through the accompanying emotions. Remember that the same Great Depression in the early 1930s that led to 23,000 suicides in one year, is the same one that led to the birth of companies like Hewlett Packard, Walt Disney company, Duracell batteries, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Sheraton and many more. While not in any way playing down the effect of melted chocolate, we want to simply explore the possibility of making cocoa from the melted chocolate. There is life after melted chocolate and as we approach the coming year, we need to begin to think in this direction. There are pillars that you need to be aware of in the new system. For instance, it is important to note that there will occasionally be transit pangs. This is when you have started the new journey and you are as it were midstream. Even if you wanted to turn back the distance to be covered is the same as if you just continued. Once transit pangs have been overcome, you begin to see the joy of new life. Finally, you will make it out of the rut but never forget that change is a cycle and will come again. Now that you know how tough and painful it can be, you now need to develop yourself and make a vow to yourself that you will never ever be a victim again. How do you stay atop the change curve and move from being a victim of change to a place where you win with change? Make flexibility a part and parcel of your thought process. The Oak that bends stands. Wale Akinyemi is the convenor of the Street University (www.thestreetuniversity.com) and chief transformation officer, PowerTalks. Wale@thestreetuniversity.com