The United Nations World Food Programme was in October named the Nobel Peace Prize Laureate for 2020 in recognition of its work addressing the link between conflict and hunger. Nobel Prize Award Committee noted the critical role that food assistance plays in supporting people living in conflict zones as they take the first steps towards peace and stability. The committee lauded WFP’s “efforts to combat hunger, for its contribution to bettering conditions for peace in conflict-affected areas and for acting as a driving force in efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war and conflict”—a reference to the organisation’s role in the UN Security Council adoption of the landmark Resolution 2417 in 2018. Nobel Peace Prize award ensures that the struggle of the 690 million people who live with chronic hunger will take centre stage, and WFP is making every effort to use this platform to amplify their voices and mobilise support. Conflict is a key driver of hunger. Where it meets climate change, the consequences are devastating. The coronavirus pandemic and accompanying restrictions are exacerbating what are already tragic circumstances that affect millions of people around the world. Eastern Africa is one of the most food insecure regions of the world, it has less than 4 percent of the global population, but about 20 percent of the population facing acute hunger globally, lives here. As noted in the Global Food Crisis Report of 2020, three of the world’s eighth largest food crises are in this region – Ethiopia, Sudan and South Sudan. Threats to crops is compounded by swarms of desert locusts, which increase when heavy rains create ideal breeding conditions. In working to ensure food security and building community resilience, WFP seeks to positively influence food systems, mitigate climate impacts, and contribute to social cohesion. In doing so, it strengthens the link between citizen and state—a key ingredient of peace. This is an award that WFP shares with many others— the governments who support it, the NGOs it works with in the field, and UN sister agencies and other providers of humanitarian and development aid. Governments across eastern Africa are WFP’s valued collaborators especially in managing food assistance projects on the ground. With the combined help of its donors and UN and NGO partners, WFP can reach over 30 million people with food assistance across Eastern Africa. But much more needs to be done. As a consequence of Covid-19, in the coming months the number of acutely food-insecure people could increase to 270 million in 2021 in the 80 countries where WFP works across the world. The organisation is mobilising its 20,000 strong workforce to meet the food needs of up to 138 million people in 2020 in what will be the largest humanitarian operation in its history. Collective and truly global action is required to contain the pandemic. Close partnerships with governments are essential to prevent and mitigate poverty and hunger in the second wave of the virus. WFP is uniquely equipped to step up but faces a 50 percent funding shortfall between what it is forecast to raise in 2021 ($7.8 billion) and what it needs ($15.1 billion). Only by bridging this gap can we reach more people with the kind of smart, efficient and scalable responses needed to save and better lives that have been shattered by Covid-19. As the Nobel Committee said, the world today is in danger of experiencing a hunger crisis of inconceivable proportions if WFP and other food assistance organizations do not receive the financial support they desperately need. Michael Dunford is the World Food Programme regional director for Eastern Africa