The early European missionaries who came to the then so-called ‘Dark Continent’ developed a guideline in training natives which they summarised in the saying, “the ears of an African child are in his buttocks”. By this they meant that to make us learn, you needed to inflict physical pain for the lesson to sink in. Please note that the well-meaning missionaries did not intend to harm the native, hence the choice of the fleshy part of the body which however repeatedly it was whipped, there was no chance of breaking a bone. Six decades after independence a lot of changes have happened, and it is the former colonisers begging African leaders not to inflict too much physical damage on their citizens. As for learning speeds, African children learn very fast these days. The question is whether they are learning some basics fast enough. Take our personal financial (mis)management of for example. Why should a man who worked steadily for 35 years, without suffering a single day of unemployment, become a pauper on retirement? Why do retired government workers consume their hefty terminal benefits in months and then start gasping for the small monthly pension as if they are drowning? And it is not only public sector employees. Why should a businessman get a hefty loan and then spend a hefty chunk of it on luxury cars and foreign holidays with a “friend” outside the family? Such businessmen are many and inevitably in civil jail for debt or somewhere abroad doing menial jobs rather than be seen broke at home. In Uganda, they have decided to cane us through the wallets. Now the ears of a grown Ugandan are apparently in his wallet (which we keep our derriere anyway). A decade or two ago, Uganda Electricity Board was “unbundled” and the entire electricity chain it used to handle was broken into several segments, being executed through foreign companies. These firms decided to knock some financial sense into our heads via the wallet a couple of weeks back when they came up with some impossible fees for anyone who needs to be connected to the grid. A quick analysis of the fees shows that whoever can afford the new connection fees can as well install a solar powered system for their house instead, and enjoy electricity with no bills for about ten years when the system will expire and cheaper better ones will then be on the market. This whip on the wallet is waking us to an obvious fact we had not allowed to enter our heads — that life is about consuming and generating energy, that this is at a cost and since resources are limited, it has to be budgeted for the consumer has limited resources for competing needs, which include energy. By raising the price of electricity beyond an average Ugandan’s reach, its foreign distributors are telling Ugandans to turn their heads and start seeing alternatives. Some Ugandans took the lesson out of context and hastily opted for stealing the electricity instead, with nasty consequences as some got accidentally electrocuted in the process of making illegal connections. But risking death by electrocution to connect oneself is not a sustainable option to beating the official extortionist connection fees. So more Ugandans are now resorting to the use of solar generated electricity. The solar sector is still chaotic, in confusion with multiple suppliers of mostly counterfeit panels and batteries, amidst little regulation in the market. Now the astronomical escalation of national grid connection fees is set to trigger an upsurge in demand for solar installations. What the electricity distributor has in effect done is to remove the need for serious solar dealers to conduct market research in Uganda. A huge demand by our eight million households has been created by this one act and we should expect competition for capturing the Uganda market that the grid power distributor has created, to ultimately deliver better, affordable solar systems. The average Ugandan whose wallet has been whipped so painfully has little option but to go solar.From the proceeds of selling five 100kg bags of maize or two medium sized goats, a peasant can buy a solar unit powering four light bulbs for several hours and charging his phone. Then their children can read their books without inhaling the dangerous monoxide from kerosene lamps. Then grid power, financed with expensive foreign loans, should remain largely for industrial users. Those are fewer, can negotiate and be respected by the grid distributor. But for the home user, the time to vote with their wallets has come. Joachim Buwembo is a Kampala-based journalist. E-mail:buwembo@gmail.com