Why do nations fail? This is the question asked by Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson in their best-selling book with the same title. They started by challenging different theories such as the land theory, the geography hypothesis, and the ignorance hypothesis. It then came down to the Koreas with same kind of land, same climate, same geography — basically the same country divided into two by global political circumstances. Today, the South is a developed nation with industry and opportunity. Creativity thrives and so do great companies taking the world by storm such as LG, Samsung, and Hyundai. K-Drama and K-Pop are global phenomena. The North is, however, different. Kim II Sung and his descendants have run the nation like a dormitory controlling every aspect of the peoples living. Everything was owned by the state and as such no incentive for investment or creative production. In essence, if a person was creative in any area, their creativity could not benefit them. Let’s consider what I have called the dream to reality gap. In the North, a young person’s ability to dream is limited by the opportunities available in their environment. No matter how great their dream, they will likely end up in the army or in one of the nation’s agencies. Owning a business or property or creating something that will go global is nearly non-existent. In the South, people can eat the fruit of their labour as their companies and institutions support them and the gap between dream and reality is more realistic than up North. Everyone has potential to be exceptional in at least one area of life. However, the greatest geniuses require the right environment. The factors that foster the right environment are all intricately woven. When a student is not doing well in one school but begins to shine when moved to another school, is it the teachers, weather, parents or the other students? Many organisations have treated the issue of culture lightly but the rewards of getting it right are enormous. Culture starts with establishing a belief system that makes desired behaviour a natural progression. Culture identifies personality types and existing behavioural patterns of people. This is vital because, there is a science to building organisational culture for maximum rewards, and it all starts with establishing a belief system. No matter how creative you are, your creativity will not serve you in the wrong environment. Think of the football greats like Didier Drogba, Samuel Eto’o, and Jay Jay Okocha. They are great footballers, they are Africans, they played and became global stars in Europe. Their genius did not serve them well on the continent of Africa. They represent a myriad of people who were gifted geniuses but whose genius did not find expression in their home countries. The ability to attract and retain top talent is a function of the culture that has been set in the organisation. And, even when they are in, do you have what it takes to get the best out of them? Wale Akinyemi is convenor of the Street University (www.thestreetuniversity) and chief transformation officer, PowerTalks Wale@thestreetuniversity.com