Patrick Youssef, the International Committee of the Red Cross Director of Operations for Africa, spoke to Fred Oluoch about the challenges on the continent What challenges would you term unique Africa? As you know the ICRC works with people affected by violence, war and conflict. Increased flare-ups and instability in the continent — like the current Ethiopian conflict — are the type of challenges we often face. Out of the 10 top conflict situations in the world, six of them are in Africa. These conflicts are protracted and increase the number of people affected and attract large budgets. Secondly, access to all affected populations is difficult. About 66 million people live in areas controlled by armed groups or non-state actors, especially in Somalia, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the Central African Republic. Then there is the erosion of international humanitarian law where some governments declare some armed groups as terrorist organisations and makes it difficult for us to reach such areas.  How has Covid-19 impacted operations of ICRC in the region and on the continent? Africa was initially resilient and even now has fewer numbers of Covid-19 compared with the rest of the world. But we could not just remain indifferent. We had to adjust our operations in Kenya and DRC, focusing on crowded refugee camps or prisons where two-metre distance is a privilege and the washing of hands a luxury. We have worked closely with the Red Cross societies and the Red Crescent to offer relief to those in confined places. However, Covid-9 has brought new challenges as well as opportunities. It has enabled us to look at our operations blueprint afresh and learned how to provide better services with limited resources. With the world recession which means less donor funding, we have set our priority on areas where we can add value such as populations in areas controlled by armed groups where very few humanitarian organisations venture.  Does ICRC have the capacity to combine the impact of the pandemic with normal humanitarian operations? First, we have to acknowledge that ICRC is not a substitute for the World Health Organisation but just complements existing efforts. However, we predict that the socio-economic impact after Covid-19 will be far greater — poverty among those living far away from the grid-like in Mali, Libya — who have no food to service. The displaced in DRC and Somalia are on survival mode. But we cannot stop providing services to those in refugee camps because of the pandemic which forces us to adapt. We need to partner with others like the private sector, the African Development Bank and African Union to manage the impact of the conflict as well as the challenges of the pandemic.  With the current conflict in Ethiopia, what is the estimated extent of humanitarian emergency and how many people are likely to be in need of assistance, and at what cost? A devastating humanitarian situation is unfolding in the Tigray region and the neighbouring Sudan where refugees are fleeing to. In just the first 14 days of the conflict, our team in Tigray found that healthcare facilities are failing. There is a need for medicine for diabetes and dialysis material otherwise people will die. One hospital in Gondar had treated more than 400 people injured in the conflict while also handling 14 Covid-19 patients, which makes the situation more difficult. We have received requests from Mekele and we are mobilising all our resources providing mattresses, medical supplies, and supporting families that have been separated. It is devastating, especially when there is no accurate information coming from the conflict zone. We are working with our partners the Ethiopia Red Cross that is providing ambulances for the injured. Thousands are crossing into Sudan seeking safety, and an untold number are displaced from their homes inside Ethiopia. The telecommunications blackout in Tigray has made it practically impossible for people to contact their family members, causing fear and anguish on the whereabouts and safety of their loved ones. ICRC delegates were also granted access to people detained in relation to the fighting to verify their condition and provide essential hygiene and other items.  How much does ICRC spend in Africa annually? We need between $823 million and $878 million annually, a target that we rarely meet. We hope donors will be able to follow us. We intend to reach out to more development partners such as the AfDB and World Bank. If 15 to 20 countries in Africa are living in war and poverty, the rest of the countries often bear the brunt. Those with the capacity to help us should come up.