Gourmet burger joints are becoming increasingly popular on the regional gastronomic scene. It takes quite a lot of experimentation to create new kinds of burgers. Mama Rocks restaurant in Nairobi had been on my radar for a long time as it had been highly recommended by my friends. So, as soon as I set foot in Nairobi this was the first place I visited. Mama Rocks is the brainchild of Samantha and Natalie, two sisters from a mixed Kenyan and Nigerian family in London. They set up shop four years ago, inspired by gourmet burger trends in the UK. While at their respective nine-to-five jobs, they flirted with the idea of having an African-inspired gourmet burger joint. They finally took a leap of faith and embarked on the venture after their parents returned to Kenya. Mama Rocks started out as a food truck stationed at The Yard in Westlands, Nairobi, and as the appetite for their African-inspired burgers grew, they decided to open a restaurant in Kilimani. I visited the two locations in one day. Not that I was that famished, I just wanted to see if their burgers were consistent since there is always a risk that attention to detail, service and quality control could be compromised at a new branch. The Yard in Westlands is also home to The Nrb Bus and The Alchemist bar. The food truck is parked behind a red double decker bus. Mama Rocks has a miniature kitchen in its semi-trailer, with Afrocentric artwork with paintings of African icons like Fela Kuti and Desmond Tutu, and witty aphorisms in Kiswahili. There is a general seating area where one can eat. What the food truck lacks in terms of ambiance, the restaurant on Argwings Kodhek road makes up for with its cosy seating, warm lighting and African-inspired décor: It has a brightly coloured sofa arrangement with quirky Ankara and African décor touches set in eco-friendly shipping containers. The walls are covered with Afrocentric artwork in the same theme as the food truck, but with more colour and liveliness. At both locations, I was welcomed warmly by hipster attendants beaming with smiles. The turnaround was quite fast. There were few people at both restaurants. I had heard that the service could be rather slow on Sundays when people flock there. I could see some of the waitstaff dancing to songs playing in the background, an added attraction for a dancer like yours truly. At the food truck I enjoyed the Fela Supa chicken burger, a peanut crusted suya chicken breast with lettuce, tomato and spiced coconut mayo, served with a side of seasoned chips and shito sauce. The burger was bursting with flavour from peanut to the tender chicken dipped in the suya marinade and the coconut. The buns and the lettuce and tomato were fresh. Halfway through the burger I understood why their food was getting rave reviews. At the Kilimani restaurant, I equally enjoyed the Mango Masai Mama beef burger. It is a fan favourite. The burger includes a 180g beef patty, chilli mango mayoinnaise sauce, cheddar cheese, mixed salad, gherkins and roasted red bell pepper. It was the tastiest burger I have ever had. The flavours came together, from the sweet mango to the sour cheddar. The chips were soft and crunchy, and I loved the Ghanaian shito sauce. Mama Rocks is unique in their eclecticism and how they combine traditionally African flavours and add a modern touch to create innovative offerings. The tongue-in cheek names given to each burger show the thought put into their offerings . I did not get to try the cocktails so that is reason enough for me to go back. Mama Rocks is hands down one of the best burger joints in Nairobi, and they tick all the boxes in terms of mastery of flavour, ingredients and presentation. It is a must visit.   All partner members are still struggling to align their laws to accommodate the Treaty. Testing kits are being shipped to more than 20 countries on the continent.