Global hotel brand Radisson Blu has opened a new Ksh2.5 billion ($24.6 million) hotel in Kenya’s capital Nairobi as part of its Africa expansion strategy. The new Radisson Blu Hotel & Residence is located near Nairobi's Arboretum Park and becomes the newest addition to its chains of outlets in Nairobi that include Radisson Blu at Upperhill and Park Inn By Radisson in Westlands. The new facility, which boasts a mix of 122 rooms and apartments, is tailored for business travellers as well as long-staying guests. The outlet is part of an aggressive Africa expansion strategy in which Radisson Blu is targeting to increase its presence in the continent. The group’s current portfolio in Africa is almost 100 hotels and more than 17,000 rooms in operation and under development across 32 countries. Apart from Kenya, the Radisson Blu also has a presence in Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania in East Africa. The hotel’s growth strategy in Africa is a key initiative for Destination 2022, its five-year strategic operating plan. The group plans to reach 130 hotels with more than 23,000 rooms in Africa by 2022. The new facility in Nairobi has already employed 110 permanent workers and 30 casuals. The Kenyan-owned modern hotel building features the FIRELAKE restaurant, an all-day dining outlet with an American-grilled cuisine offering an African touch. The hotel also thrives on being eco-friendly with a focus of not only being in proximity to the Nairobi Arboretum Park, but also offering a lot of green spaces around its premise. It has naturally aerated room corridors and is the first 5-star in the city with an apiary on the roof top. The design concept of the hotel mirrors the colosseum, fitted and nature-inspired design details spread across the property, and with the infinity pool seating in the middle of the property, offers the perfect escape very close to the city, which is a welcome green escape. Other facilities available at the property are Arborista delicatessen restaurant, the pool bar, The Blu Space Spa and Gym.   The council did not give a date for the trip but said Burhan “promised to fulfil it soon”. Several vaccine candidates are currently at different stages of clinical development.