Patrick Idringi commonly known as Salvado celebrated his 10-year journey in comedy with a star-studded line-up of fellow African comics at the Singleton Africa Laughs comedy show at the Kololo Independence Grounds in Kampala on February 14. Salvado was joined on stage during the fifth season of the comedy show by visiting top comedians Kenny Blaq (Nigeria), Mpho Popps (South Africa), Eric Omondi (Kenya), Eddie Kadi (DR Congo) and Alfred Kainga (Zimbabwe). Uganda’s top comedians at the event were Emma Napoleon, Ronnie Mcvex, Daniel Omara, Okello Okello, Dr Hillary and Uncle Mark. Entertainment was provided by Ugandan musicians Levixone, Eddy Kenzo and Bebe Cool, and Tanzanian bongo flavour star Harmonize. “I feel like I am on top of the world. I never imagined I’d be where I am today,” Salvado said at the event. He said his comedy style is mostly observational, “based on my personal experiences and I try to highlight a few things that we go through as a people, using humour.” Asked if one can make a decent living from comedy, he said, “Yes totally. I’m living testimony, I’ve done quite well for myself through comedy.” The 35-year-old comedian does not regret abandoning his telecommunications engineering career for the comic stage. “It is one of the best decisions I’ve ever made in my life and I thank God for it every day.” He said the Ugandan comedy industry is doing well: “We are getting there. The current state of comedy is on the right path and if we continue with this focus, we will be a force to reckon with.” The much sought-after comedian and actor says that his biggest achievement in his comedy career so far was when he met Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni recently. President Museveni told the Ministry of Defence to offer Salvado the Kololo Independence Grounds at no cost for his just concluded show. The award-winning comedian has performed in South Africa, Mauritius, Kenya, Nigeria and other countries. ***  What’s your off-duty passion? I like fixing things. Sometimes I’ll just get my tools and start modifying my children’ toys and other electrical items, or even create a new lighting system at home.  What signifies your personal style? I don’t follow the latest trends. Whatever I wear that I feel comfortable in will be my style until I find something else. Most of my clothes are tailor made.  While in East Africa, where are you most likely to spend your Saturday afternoon? At a gig, either emceeing a wedding or corporate function. After the gig, I may choose to go out. But if the afternoon finds me free, I like staying in with the family. I usually go out on Fridays.  What is your best destination in East Africa? I fell in love with Zanzibar. I’ve been there a couple of times and it’s a wonderful tourist destination. I also love the Lake Bunyonyi region in Kabale District in western Uganda. It’s peaceful and the air is fresh.  Do you have a must-visit list? I would love to tour the world with my wife and I hope to do that soon.  What do you think is East Africa’s greatest strength? The open border policies. As East Africans we are free to travel within the region without hindrances.  What is your best collection? I’m a big fan of reggae/ragga and Afro-pop. These genres have fortunately been well mastered by Ugandan musicians.  What’s the most thoughtful gift you’ve received? A Pope-blessed rosary. I met a fan of mine at a hospital where I go for treatment and he was so pleased to meet me. He told me how he became my ardent follower because of my love for the rosary; he rushed to his car and got me a rosary he had just received from the Pope when he visited Uganda.  What’s the best gift you’ve given? Rosaries. I realised that to be blessed you need to share your blessings. I’ve given a couple of my close friends my rosaries as a sign of wishing them well.  Which is the big book you have read recently? The Bible. I was tasked by my wife on a couple of occasions to read the Bible to find inner peace, and it has worked.  Which film has impacted you the most? One film that played with my emotions is Titanic. I’m a big fan of comedy and sci-fi movies as well.  What’s your favourite music? Ugandan music with a touch of reggae/ragga and Afro beat.  What is your favourite website? www.arsenal.com.  What does not miss in your fridge? Water and juice.  How do you unwind after a day’s work? I like having a good laugh with friends over a drink.   The matter will now be heard and determined at the East African Court of Justice. A proposal last week was rejected by Somaliland.