Artists from a country once crippled by conflict are once again sticking their heads above the parapet. We saw it in Sudan, it happened in Zimbabwe, in Ethiopia and Eritrea as well and now, like flowers that push through concrete, the artists of Angola are proving that creativity can never be killed. Small brave flowers from the other side of Africa have become a carpet of blooms that can be seen at the Circle gallery in Lavington, Nairobi, where an exhibition is dedicated to art from the Atlantic republics of Angola and the islands of Sao Tome and Principe. On show are 20 works by 12 artists—11 from Angola and one from the islands—and for those of us used to the generally more subtle palettes of East Africa’s major artists, their vibrant colours come as a shock. Although they might appear rowdy at first sight, their apparent simplicity and the artists’ seeming lack of discipline is a deliberate effect employed by a highly trained group of painters who have adjusted their styles towards reinforcing content. With many Cubans teaching art in Angola—one legacy of Castro’s help in the country’s 27-year civil war—and the impact of the former Portuguese colony Brazil heavily to hand, the influences are many and mostly tropical. First thing to hit you on entry to the exhibition—entitled Atlantico: Angola and Sao Tome & Principe Contemporary—are a couple of paintings by one of the major figures of Angolan art, Francisco Vidal, who uses a neon bright palette as a part of his practice which blends influences including cubism, wax-print textiles and hip-hop, plus contemporary graffiti and street art. A street artist known simply as Zbi (his Sunday name is Isaac Pinto de Andrade) contributes what proved to be one of the most popular paintings in the exhibition. Called Exploration of Happiness it shows the upturned face of a young woman emerging from an Afro made of butterflies and has the graphic strength of a Flower Power album cover from the Seventies. Appropriate, really.   Kwame Sousa, the sole artist representing Sao Tome & Principe, the two-island republic in the Gulf of Guinea, shows two large paintings that demonstrate both his strength as a draughtsman and his political awareness. Golden Chains, for example, references the islands’ past links with slavery with its powerful central figure still wearing an iron collar, trailing a broken chain. I always think, “If you are going to do it, then go for it,” and Kapela Paulo with his acrylics on canvas painting Mother Seller does just that, producing one of the most colourful and controlled paintings in the show. A market woman, baby on back and a plastic basket balanced on her head, walks away from the viewer towards a backdrop perhaps based on colourful and vibrant fabrics that echo the brightness of her blouse and the baby’s wrap...a wholly satisfying piece in subject, drawing, composition and palette. Not all is paint, however. Uólofe Griot offers a comparatively subdued canvas on which coloured cotton threads are stitched into an inked pattern, while Daniela Ribeiro shows two traditional style masks decorated with today’s paraphernalia of computers, which she describes as nanotechnology—pieces of mobile phones, screens, chips, keyboards and so—in an edgy comparison between colonialism and the post colonial future. I liked a thoughtful piece by Hamilton Francisco or Babu, who uses transfer prints (I think of Ife heads) in a densely layered evocation of contradictions between the coloniser and the colonised. Working with paper, canvas and jute sacking he presents what he calls, “the fragility of being Angolan.” Also exhibiting are Antonio Ole, internationally respected and best known for his photography and installations but here showing a sludgy early painting, and Ricardo Kapuka whose Global Crisis Solutions, is the most figuratively literal of the paintings present. Then we have Joana Taya’s two poster-like works, boldly red and black, plus a cubism-inspired paper collage on vinyl by Nelo Teixeira, a self taught artist and set designer who works across a variety of media. Completing the group are two paintings by Francisco Domingos Van-Dúnem —he signs as ‘Van’—who here typically mixes animals and migrating birds with patterns particular to specific Angolan communities. All these paintings, bright, cheerful and as riotous as a garden full of flowers on a sunny summer’s day; yes they are. Frenzied, chaotic, and as gaudy as a pizza; many of them are that too. But I welcome this show at the Circle, which once more does great service by taking us out of our comfort zone and introducing us to work from across Africa. And although there was not a painting I would want to live with (in spite of the siren call of Kapela Paulo’s Mother Seller) a visit to Atlantico should be on every art-lover’s list. It is packed with important paintings—well executed, provocative and dealing with major issues...and in any case, to coin a cliché as they say, a change is as good as a rest.   Under the travel restrictions, the US will stop issuing “diversity visas” to Tanzanians Country says local initiative could address global problems