The entertainment industry in Tanzania has not been spared from Covid-19, but the "new normal" involves virtual experiences of what used to be live, boisterous events. The alluring celebrations and jamming to the beats in clubs, festivals or other social gatherings have now become things of the past. I recently came across a new music video titled Kaka Tuchati and what struck me about it was the uniqueness of its visual effects and concept. Aside from the affable duo Rostam comprising of Bongo flava stars Roma Mkatoliki and Stamina, majority of the credit for such a fine piece of work goes to the director of the video Nicko Mmbaga, better known as director NiCKLASS. Kaka Tuchati quickly went viral. So who is this man behind the video? Born and raised in Tanzania's capital city Dodoma, NiCKLASS has directed several famous Bongo flava videos including Rimoti, Zimbabwe, Huna baya, Kaa kijanja, Kaolewa. The concept of the video aims to educate as well as entertain, a blend known as "edutainment." I sat down with the talented director to talk more about his journey in the entertainment industry.  How did your journey as a music video director start? I first used a computer when I was 14 years old, and I used the paint programme to come up with different designs. I created my logo ‘NiCKLASS’. I would also create music beats and edit photos. In 2009 I made my first video with my friends and my interest grew. Officially, 2014 is when I decided to commercialise my craft.  Let’s talk about Kaka Tuchati, how did you come up with the idea? I wanted to come up with something of good quality, that was relatable, but still adhering to the health restrictions while doing the shoot. I wanted to do something that shows the current reality of life. With one artist in the United States and the other within the country, the idea of Instagram live, WhatsApp chats and FaceTime was perfect ...  I am glad it was well received.  What’s the difference between then and now in doing your work? Artistes now understand that a good quality video requires investment. Talent is important, yes, but money is essential. Equipment, for instance, currently can cost up to Tshs100 million per day. Previously, to get such an amount of money as a new director required trust.  What was the hardest music video to create/direct? The music video Nipe nguvu by Barakah the Prince. Until today, I have no idea if people really understood the concept. But almost all videos are challenging.  What do you do for fun? I like watching music videos, movies, documentaries and tutorials. When I watch I learn. I like listening, so making stories na washkaji is fun.  Where do you see the industry in the next few years? Our work is going global. I see more doors opening for Tanzanian music video directors. We need an opportunity to direct foreign music videos in South Africa, maybe Nigeria and then there won’t be anything to stop us from being known globally. Tanzania has very talented directors.   Some 307 people tested positive, pushing the case load to 6,673. Burundi only has a single testing centre, with fewer than 10 technicians capable of carrying out