Movement of trucks and cargo is now classified under essential services in the East African Community in line Covid-19 Administrative Guidelines. The measures, outlined in a 17-page document, and seen as a response to rising cases of positive Covid-19 cases among long distance truck drivers, further directs country Commissioners of Customs and other agencies to allow scanned documents in lieu of original documents that may take longer to be physically couriered to facilitate faster movement of goods. Further, transporters must use the EAC gazetted transit routes along the Northern and Central corridors while partner states should waive fees on port and border handling charges for essential goods required during this period. Closures opposed The joint EAC team chaired by deputy secretary general in charge Productive and Social Sectors, Dr Christoph Bazivamo, head of Health department Dr Michael Katende, and the director of Customs and Trade, Kenneth Bagamuhunda, cautioned partner states against closing border crossings by imposing measures that impede access to all designated points of entry and exit of cargo. “We are seeing Uganda issue guidelines limiting the number of people per truck to one, while Rwanda has directed that goods be offloaded to warehouses at the border, causing delay in movement of goods,” said Mr Bagamuhunda. “Movement of trucks and cargo must be treated as essential services,” he said. EAC is opposed to Rwanda’s directive that truck drivers offload their goods into a warehouse at the border and drive back without proper arrangements at the border with Uganda. It also appears to fault Uganda’s directive that there should be only one person (a driver) per truck, further affecting cargo movement across EAC. “There is a need for a uniform application of Covid-19 related measures for the region hence the administration guidelines, which each partner state must adhere to,” said Mr Bagamuhunda. Seamless flowThe EAC Secretariat wants drivers tested just before they cross over at border points and designate specific areas and places where the drivers will stay, avoiding mixing with the community after President Yoweri Museveni directed that drivers should not be allowed in hotels. “Designate specific points along the transit routes where truck drivers and crew can rejuvenate without mingling with local communities.” “Ensure cargo is flows seamlessly without restriction and where a relay system and transshipment is adopted, the process should not lead to exorbitant costs that could adversely affect transporters and consequently consumers,” said Peter Mathuki, the chief executive of EABC in a statement on Thursday.   The country has recorded its highest number of infections in a single day, 24. Double blow to the region that is already grappling with Covid-19.