• Last year, 70 artists were imprisoned, with more than 20 per cent of them facing terrorism charges as far-right and nationalist politics grows across the world In November 2018, Ugandan academic and feminist Stella Nyanzi was arrested by police, and sentenced to 18 months in jail in August 2019, on charges of cyberbullying and offensive communication. Across the world in El Salvador, César Canales, the frontman of the metal band Apes of God, was killed during the band’s live performance in the municipality of Armenia. In Iraq, the poet Alaa Mashzoub, who was known for his writings about political and religious taboos, was shot dead as he was cycling to his family home in Karbala. These three represent what many artists went through last year, according to the State of Artistic Freedom Report 2020. Seventy artists were imprisoned, with more than 20 per cent of them facing terrorism charges as far-right and nationalist politics grows across the world, says the report launched by Freemuse, an independent international organisation advocating and defending freedom of artistic expression. The report, launched on April 15, in Stockholm, during the World Art Day Digital Seminar on the “State of Artistic Freedom: Key Challenges and Recommendations for Change”, stated that artists went to prison for charges that included criticising government policies and practices (42 per cent), counterterrorism (21 per cent), religion (11 per cent), indecency (8 per cent), and conflict (4 per cent). Turkey, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia led among the countries that detained artists. The others were China, Russia, Belarus, India, Egypt, Venezuela and Cuba. “Freedom of artistic expression is protected as long as it fits dominating narratives; politically, religiously and digitally,” Freemuse executive director Srirak Plipat said, adding: “This report shows that the West is losing its leading position as human-rights and freedom defenders at a fast pace, while the world grows intolerant and violent against non-mainstream views and expression.” At the seminar, co-hosted by the Swedish National Commission for UNESCO, Konstnärernas Riksorganisation and the Swedish Arts Council, Freemuse campaigns and advocacy manager Sverre Pedersen said, “Freedom of artistic expression is challenged in countries where these rights have always been challenged, but also in countries where these rights have been traditionally upheld, marking a deterioration in countries previously understood to be flag bearers for human rights.” Widespread attacks The 126-page report by Freemuse examined 711 acts of violations of artistic freedom in 2019 in 93 countries. It shows widespread attacks as artists’ voices continue to be censored. After politics and indecency, religion is the third most frequent rationale for silencing artists. Representatives of religious groups often file complaints or publicly request bans against artists alleging that their work offends their sentiments. Freemuse says the effect of nationalist, populist politics leads to increased restrictions on artistic expressions.   Health ministry reports that 45 more people have tested positive. The plane carrying aid supplies for use in the fight against Covid-19 was shot down Monday.