Twenty-five more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Kenya, bringing the total tally of confirmed cases to 912, Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman said on Monday. Of these, 23 are men while two are women. Their ages range between 22 and 50 years old. Twenty-three of the new positive cases are Kenyans while two are Somalis. Taita Taveta, Garissa and Meru are the latest counties to record their first cases, bringing the total number of affected counties to 23. Taveta has 2, Garissa 2 and Meru 1 virus cases. The distribution of other new cases by county is: Kajiado (6), Mombasa (5), Nairobi (3), Kiambu (3) and Kwale (3). The new cases in Nairobi were drawn from Githurai 44, Kawangware and Starehe estates. So far, Kenya has tested 44,851 samples, Dr Aman said. "Targeted mass testing is going to be expanded. Our limitation is the international supply chain. We have received testing materials and that's why we have ramped up the testing," he said. No Covid-19 deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hours. 22 were discharged after testing negative with the total number of recoveries rising to 336. TRUCK DRIVERS He noted that 53 truck drivers have so far tested positive for Covid-19 along the Kenya-Tanzania border, of which 51 were from Tanzania and 2 Burundi nationals. All were turned back to the country. Dr Aman said plans are now underway to have a laboratory set up at the Namanga border to speed up testing and release of virus results. "Border points remain important. We have capacity to test at the points along the Uganda border. The problem is the Tanzania border and turn around time for results is long," he said. FACE MASKS IN CARS Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna, who was present at the briefing, clarified that police officers do not have the authority to arrest those not wearing face masks when they're inside their private cars. "If you are stepping out of your house you must have a mask on. But we understand too that a private vehicle is not a public place...They (police) are not supposed to arrest anyone in their private cars but they are supposed to encourage anyone to come out wearing that mask," he said in response to a journalist's query.   She was nominated in 2013 but the post went to Mr Roberto Azevedo.