Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, the Director General of NCDC, said the cases would likely increase if the people are allowed to mingle. The nation lacks bed spaces and this could worsen the scenario. “The easing of the lockdown should not be seen as going back to status quo,” as Nigeria may not be able to manage possible explosion, he said. Abuja, Nigeria’s decision to ease nationwide lockdown by Monday has sparked a row as Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) fears that the Covid-19 coronavirus pandemic will spiral. The National Medical Association (NMA), which has lost more than 11 doctors in the battle, also warned against the decision to unlock the economy and polity. The NCDC warned that coronavirus cases will continue to rise for the next few months even as the cases peaked at 2,388 with 85 deaths, a leap within a week by more than 150 per cent. Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, the Director General of NCDC, said the cases would likely increase if people are allowed to mingle. Increased capacity to test more people could also mean higher recorded cases of Covid-19. STRAIN The nation lacks bed spaces and this could worsen the frightening scenario. “The easing of the lockdown should not be seen as going back to status quo,” as Nigeria may not be able to manage possible explosion of infections, he said. Dr Ihekweazu said that governments and Nigerians have roles to play in slowing the spread of novel coronavirus pandemic and protecting themselves, their families and communities. President Muhammadu Buhari, who imposed a lockdown in Lagos and Ogun states as well as in Abuja, for 28 days has declared easing of the lockdown due to public demand. Thirty-four other states had also imposed a lockdown. However, the relaxing of the lockdown came at a time that Kano in north west Nigeria, with a population of more than 20 million, is recording its worst cases and with hundreds of mysterious deaths. Reports say that more than 150 people have died mysteriously in two weeks, prompting the World Health Organization (WHO) to launch a probe into the unusual deaths. President of the Association of NMA, Dr Francis Faduyile, described the easing of the lockdown as premature, as it will “figuratively tilt the epidemiological curve towards an upward spike”. Dr Faduyile argued that easing the lockdown could be overwhelming as more than 113 Healthcare Workers (HCWs), including doctors, have been infected and some have died. GUIDELINES Despite the opposition to the lockdown and the increase in cases, guidelines on the relaxation of the lockdown and gradual reopening of the economy have been released by the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on Covid-19. Mr Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, who is also the Chairman of PTE, announced on May 3, 2020, that the process would span six weeks, broken into three tranches of two weeks each. This is designed to reduce the pains of socio-economic disruptions while strengthening public health response. He argued the action would also provide support to poor and vulnerable groups, but warned that nationwide overnight curfews from 8pm to 6am will be effective May 4, 2020. Other measures include the ban on inter-state travels with the exemption for the movement of goods, agro-products, petroleum products, essential services; closure of schools; closure of places of worship; and ban on all passenger flights. Mr Mustapha said offices and businesses will be re-opened on May 4, 2020 after the premises have been fumigated and have made provision for physical distancing. Workplaces should ensure compulsory use of face masks, testing of temperature and prohibiting mass gathering of more than 20 people. The action of the government did not amount to the end of the battle against the virus, he said, adding that, “It signifies the need for more vigilance and stringent compliance so that we are not lulled into complacence capable of diminishing the progress we have made so far.”   It is betting on the privatisation of Ethio Telecom and auction of telecom licences. Clearing cargo at the border crossing is expected to increase cost of transport.