• Safety of staff and customers takes priority, so restaurants educate their riders about Covid-19 precautions and have equipped them with face masks and hand sanitiser. When the government of Rwanda first announced a comprehensive lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus, people rushed to stock up by “panic buying”. International media was already awash with Covid-19 lockdown stories of scrambles in supermarkets. So, for my last restaurant meal in a while, I went to Hotel Chez Lando and ordered my favourite dish of pork ribs served with herbs and vegetables, mushroom soup and steamed matooke. Just a week into the lockdown, many people had exhausted their supplies, and a week later, even those who had overstocked were craving their usual restaurant delicacies. Ordering online Faced with hard economic times, some restaurants and hotels in Kigali jumped onto the idea of home deliveries where customers order meals online and pay by mobile money. Some of the companies that have latched onto this idea are online delivery platforms like Vuba Vuba, and Rush Foods for cooked food and groceries. Some people order directly from restaurants. Because I like roasted meat, I have ordered for nyama choma and sometimes chicken from Fuchsia Bar and Restaurant. The meat is delivered wrapped in foil paper and packed in an envelope—which keeps it hot—while the chips or any other accompaniment comes on a disposable plate, all tucked inside a delivery box. The meat is tender and juicy, just like what I was used to. The only difference is there is no sports-bar ambience to go with it. The prices are higher than usual. A plate, for instance, that normally goes for Rwf5,000 ($5), is now Rwf 7,000 ($7), and the cost of transport and the disposable plate are overpriced. Fuchsia management says they will continue making home deliveries even when the lockdown ends, a service they didn’t have before. According to Albert Munyabugingo, a former Jumia employee who recently started his own food and grocery online delivery business called Vuba Vuba, his customers have increased significantly since the lockdown. “On a weekly basis, our number of orders has grown by more than 30 per cent, and the number of our partner vendors has increased by 18 per cent since the lockdown started. “We have also added more supermarkets and pharmacies with Covid-19 prevention kits for our customers to stay home safe and have all their daily essentials delivered.” Munyabugingo says safety of their staff and customers remains their priority, so they educate their delivery riders about Covid-19 precautions and have equipped them with face masks and hand sanitiser. In addition, customers are encouraged to adopt cashless methods of payment to limit physical contact on delivery.   Health ministry reports that 45 more people have tested positive. The plane carrying aid supplies for use in the fight against Covid-19 was shot down Monday.