On one level it looks like John Pombe Magufuli and his CCM party are the only game in town and that the opposition is either too careless or too lethargic to put up an honest fight. This is at the level of campaign posters and party flags. It is all green with a tinge of yellow, and the face is that of the big man himself beaming down with a lemon smile. Throughout the country it is the same thing. CCM, Magufuli and the ruling party’s candidates for parliament and district councils are adorning the roads and streets in every village, conglomeration and hamlet, while the opposition is conspicuously absent. Since multiparty politics went to the polls in 1995, this looks the most one-sided contest of them all, literally a walkover for the ruling party. How did this come about? A few months ago, Tanzania Revenue Authority issued new by-laws making political campaign advertising an impossibly expensive exercise, charging whoever displays campaign materials rates comparable to what they would pay if they were selling cigarettes or OMO. So the opposition, lacking the deep pockets or the ready sponsors that the ruling party has, looks quite absent and forlorn. But on another level, it looks like Magufuli and his party are about to be swept out of power by Chadema and the man who, three years ago, was hit by 16 bullets by assassins, a case that the police do not seem interested in investigating, Tundu Lissu, if you judge by the mammoth crowds that he pulls to his campaign meetings everywhere he goes. How is this? Some observers suggest that the throngs are drawn by curiosity, the desire to see this man who could not be killed by multiple shots, disbelieving their eyes even as they see and hear him. He sure walks with a bad limp from his wounds, but his voice is as strong and steady as his oratory is searing and stinging. Another reason for the huge numbers could be that for people who have had no politics (except for Magufuli himself) for five years, this is a novel experience which multitudes are pulled to bathe in. Plus, a lot of what Lissu says could land one in court for sedition in normal times, but these are election times and many strictures do not apply, and Lissu is using these unusual circumstances to give the president a run for his money. For once Magufuli is forced to explain himself and his policies and decisions, something he is not used to, and the strain is showing. A senior opposition politician told me in an interview shortly before the campaigns started, that the two months or so of the campaigns would be too much for Magufuli because they would tire him so much. It may be starting to be true. There is still a month or so to go, and Lissu’s campaign has planned to do a last lap in October, touching practically all the constituencies. They will still have no posters while Magufuli’s posters and those of CCM candidates at ward and constituency levels will dominate the scene, but in the end it may matter very little. In the meantime, the government electoral commission has been haggling with the two opposition parties in the contest, Chadema and ACT-Wazalendo over their candidates who had been disqualified in the Union elections and a number of them have been cleared to run after appealing, though some seem not to have satisfied the government-appointed commission. In some constituencies, Chadema and ACT have apparently struck an understanding that where either party candidate is disqualified, support be given to the other party, the better to make sure that CCM candidates do not get elected unopposed, which had seemed to be the ruling party’s strategy. This could strengthen the hand of the opposition in the elections and make for hotly contested constituencies in some places. It is not clear if the presidential candidate put up by ACT, former foreign minister Bernard Membe will stand down in favour of Tundu Lissu, but the leader of ACT-Wazalendo, Zitto Kabwe, has hinted that on October 3 his party will make an important announcement, and this could be just the day that the two parties, led by rather young politicians, could tell the world that they are pooling their electoral resources to confront the ruling behemoth, CCM. That would be the day of the Day of the Young Turks. It is still not very easy for Membe to sacrifice his position as his new party’s anointed flag bearer; there is prestige that attaches to being nominated in that capacity and the name recognition that comes with it does confer a certain status. But political parties have got to do what political parties have got to do, and one of those things is to break some eggs in order to make an omelette. At the end of the day, huge political rallies don’t vote; nor do thousands of posters strewn around the country. The true supporters who affect election results are those who registered when registration was still being done, and turn up on polling day to cast their votes. The jury is still out. Ulimwengu is now on YouTube via jeneralionline tv. E-mail: jenerali@gmail.com