Kenya’s Chief Justice David Maraga has for the second time since taking office dropped a bombshell. The first time was when he read a majority decision (of which he was part) that declared the August 2017 presidential election null and void. This time, he has advised President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve Parliament for violating the constitutional “two-thirds gender” rule. This constitutional principle states that no elective or appointive body should be composed of more than two-thirds of the same gender. “It is my constitutional duty”, reads part of Maraga’s letter to the President, “to advise your Excellency to dissolve Parliament under Article 261 (7) of the Constitution.” The most vocal opposition to the CJ’s move came, not surprisingly, from Justin Muturi, National Assembly Speaker. First, he argued that the gender rule potentially violates the sovereign will of the electorate to the extent that compliance would demand “top-ups or nominations”. The second point he raises is that the cost of by-elections that will result if President Kenyatta accedes to CJ’s advisory will be prohibitive. Then he argues that the Constitution does not place on Parliament the onus to ensure gender parity in all state organs. These arguments by Muturi are mechanistic and cynical. The Sovereign will of a people, though an important constitutional principle, is not an end in itself. It has to facilitate the achievement of overall constitutional goals such as gender equity. And while it is true that the cost of by-elections just before scheduled national elections in two years will be expensive, it is Parliament’s and Muturi’s fault that we find ourselves in this position. Parliament failed twice to pass two-thirds gender legislation despite court advisories to do so. Muturi’s final point that the Constitution does not place on Parliament the onus to ensure that all state organs comply with the gender principle is cynical. Parliament has the constitutional duty to enact legislation to ensure that state organs and processes comply with constitutional provisions and principles. Muturi’s arguments are consistent with his philosophy with which he has presided over the National Assembly since 2013. He has tended to be influenced by ethnic and party considerations instead of being guided by constitutional principles. His philosophy has failed to view his office as the most important player in our endeavour to achieve constitutional goals. On the contrary, Parliament under his leadership has often used legalisms and mechanistic interpretations of the Constitution to subvert the spirit, if not the letter, of the Constitution. The Parliament over which Muturi has presided has been the most infantile ( fights in Parliament ), the most intellectually deficient. Therefore, it is Parliament’s and Muturi’s conduct that have led to the present potential constitutional conundrum.