A few days ago I was invited to speak at a forum on “The Educated Mind”. Many people confuse a schooled mind for an educated mind. Dictionaries like Webster’s, Oxford and Cambridge all tie education directly to school, while dictionary.com defines education as the act or process of imparting or acquiring general knowledge, developing the powers of reasoning and judgment, and preparing oneself or others intellectually for mature life. The fact that a person went to school does not mean that they are educated. School teaches us how to remember while education teaches the ability to imagine. Solutions to the problems of today do not lie in how well you can recall information, but in imagining tomorrow. Imagining the future is hinged on the ability of the student to harness information and use it to solve present day problems. The educated mind is relevant to the needs of humanity. There is no advantage in being the brightest among fools or the most intelligent amongst the ignorant. Uneducated but schooled people live in a bubble. They live in the illusion that the information they have acquired is what gives them an edge in life. Your life is going to reflect how you have been able to use that information in practical ways to solve everyday issues. Brain capacity of human beings has been put at around 2.5 petabytes. A petabyte is a million gigabytes. The processing power of the world’s super Tainhe 2 computer is nothing compared with the processing power of the human brain, yet this computer was built by 1,300 engineers and costs about $400 million. At the very least, the human brain is worth $400 million. However, many schooled people are living below their potential because of the way they use their brains. They have relegated their brains to perform the primary function of memory. The future belongs to those who dream it and dare to live out their dreams. If we do not task our brains to reach for the impossible then we will remain in the mediocre. I once developed what I called Wale’s Triangle. One tip of the triangle is for the things that are obvious. Another tip is for the things that are known, and the final tip is for the things that are comfortable. Many people make their decisions from within the context of this triangle. This is why the strategies of many organisations are similar. They all read from the same playbook. Every breakthrough concept that has been developed to solve the problems of humanity has been developed outside the triangle. Those who have differentiated themselves are however those who have dared to go outside the triangle where there is much more space to maneouvre. When a person goes outside the triangle, their greatest critics will be those inside who have grown so accustomed to the status quo. So how then do we make the migration from schooled to education? It starts by tasking the brain and exploiting the imaginative function. Wale Akinyemi is the convenor of the Street University (www.thestreetuniversity.com) and chief transformation officer at PowerTalks. Wale@thestreetuniversity.com